> 115THCONGRESS
>    1STSESSION      S.ll
> To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to modernize the tax treatment
>    of derivatives and their underlying investments, and for other purposes.
>     IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
>                    llllllllll
>  Mr. YDEN introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred
>            to the Committee on llllllllll
>                    A BILL
> To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to modernize
>     the tax treatment of derivatives and their underlying
>     investments, and for other purposes.
     Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
 SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
     (a) SHORT T ITLE.—This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Modernization of Derivatives Tax Act of 2017’’.
     (b) MENDMENT OF   1986 C ODE.—Except as other- wise expressly provided, whenever in this Act an amend- ment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to be made to a section or other provi- sion of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
 SEC. 2. MODERNIZATION OF TAX TREATMENT OF CERTAIN DERIVATIVES.
     (a) IN  G ENERAL .—Subchapter E of chapter 1 is amended by adding at the end the following new part:
   ‘‘PART IV—TAX TREATMENT OF DERIVATIVES AND SIMILAR CONTRACTS
>     ‘‘Subpart B. Similar contracts
                ‘‘Subpart A—Derivatives
>     ‘‘Sec. 491. Rules for treatment of derivatives.
>     ‘‘Sec. 492. Investment hedging units.
>     ‘‘Sec. 493. Derivative defined.
 ‘‘SEC. 491. RULES FOR TREATMENT OF DERIVATIVES.
     ‘‘(a) IN G ENERAL  .—For purposes of this title, if there is a taxable event with respect to a derivative or an underlying investment—
          ‘‘(1) notwithstanding any other provision of this title, except as provided in subsection (b)(3)(A) or section 1032, gain or loss shall be recognized and taken into account in the taxable year in which the taxable event occurs, and
          ‘‘(2) proper adjustment shall be made in the amount of any subsequent gain or loss for gain or loss taken into account by reason of paragraph (1).
     ‘‘(b) ULES  RELATING TO  G AIN OR LOSS .—Notwith- standing any other provision of this title—
          ‘‘(1) CHARACTER AND SOURCE OF GAIN OR LOSS .—
              ‘‘(A) CHARACTER  .—Except as provided in paragraph (3)(B), any item of income, deduc- tion, gain, or loss taken into account under sub- section (a) with respect to a taxable event shall be treated as—
                   ‘‘(i) ordinary income or loss, and
                   ‘‘(ii) attributable to a trade or busi- ness of the taxpayer for purposes of sec- tions 62(a) and 172(d)(4).
              ‘‘(B) SOURCE OF GAIN OR LOSS FROM DE    - RIVATIVES.—In the case of a taxable event with respect to a derivative, any item of income, de- duction, gain, or loss taken into account under subsection (a) shall be treated as derived from sources within the country of residence of the taxpayer.
          ‘‘(2) ETERMINATION OF AMOUNT    .—
              ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL  .—The amount of gain or loss taken into account under subsection (a) with respect to a taxable event shall be—
                   ‘‘(i) in the case of a taxable event in- volving the termination or transfer of a de- rivative or the sale or exchange of an un- derlying investment, the amount of gain or loss determined under this title with re- spect to the taxable event, or
                   ‘‘(ii) in the case of any other taxable event, the amount of gain or loss which would be determined under this title if, im- mediately before the taxable event—
                        ‘‘(I) in the case of a derivative, the derivative were terminated or transferred at its fair market value, or
                        ‘‘(II) in the case of an underlying investment, the investment were sold or exchanged at its fair market value.
               ‘‘(B) ELIANCE ON VALUATION    .—For pur- poses of subparagraph (A), the taxpayer may rely on a valuation which is—
                   ‘‘(i) provided to the taxpayer by a broker under section 6045(b), or
                   ‘‘(ii) determined under an applicable financial statement.
          ‘‘(3) SPECIAL RULES FOR TAXABLE EVENTS WITH RESPECT TO INVESTMENT HEDGING UNITS        .—
               ‘‘(A) N GENERAL   .—In the case of a tax- able event described in subsection (c)(2) with respect to a derivative or underlying investment (other than a termination or transfer of the de- rivative or the sale or exchange of the under- lying investment)—
                   ‘‘(i) notwithstanding subsection (a), built-in loss (if any) with respect to the de- rivative or underlying investment shall not be recognized and shall not be taken into account by reason of such taxable event, and
                   ‘‘(ii) notwithstanding paragraph (1), built-in gain (if any) with respect to the underlying investment shall be treated as long-term or short-term capital gain if the built-in gain would have been so treated if the investment were sold or exchanged at its fair market value immediately before the time the built-in gain is determined under subparagraph (D).
               ‘‘(B) IDENTIFICATION  .—For purposes of this paragraph, the determination of which por- tions of an underlying investment have been deemed sold or exchanged in a taxable event shall be made in the same manner as if there had been an actual sale or exchange.
               ‘‘(C) B UILT-IN  LOSS .—For purposes of this section, the term ‘built-in loss’ means, with respect to any derivative or underlying invest- ment in an investment hedging unit, any loss which would have been recognized and taken into account under subsection (a) if the deriva- tive were terminated or transferred, or the un- derlying investment were sold or exchanged, at its fair market value as of the later of the time that the investment hedging unit was estab- lished or the time the derivative or the under- lying investment became part of the investment hedging unit.
               ‘‘(D) B UILT IN GAIN  .—For purposes of this section, the term ‘built-in gain’ means, with respect to any underlying investment in an in- vestment hedging unit, any gain which would have been recognized and taken into account under subsection (a) if the underlying invest- ment were sold or exchanged at its fair market value as of the later of the time that the invest- ment hedging unit was established or the time the underlying investment became part of the investment hedging unit.
     ‘‘(c) TAXABLE  E VENT .—For purposes of this part, the term ‘taxable event’ means—
          ‘‘(1) with respect to any derivative which is not part of an investment hedging unit—
               ‘‘(A) the termination or transfer of such derivative, and
               ‘‘(B) the close of any taxable year if the taxpayer has rights or obligations with respect to such derivative at such time, and
          ‘‘(2) with respect to all derivatives and under- lying investments which are part of the same invest- ment hedging unit—
               ‘‘(A) the establishment of the investment hedging unit,
               ‘‘(B) the termination or transfer of any such derivative,
               ‘‘(C) the sale or exchange of all or any por- tion of any such underlying investment,
               ‘‘(D) the entering into of another deriva- tive, or the acquisition of an additional amount of such underlying investment, after the estab- lishment of the investment hedging unit if such derivative or additional amount is treated as part of the investment hedging unit under sec- tion 492, and
              ‘‘(E) in the case of—
                  ‘‘(i) an investment hedging unit with respect to which an election is in effect under section 492(b), the close of each business day, and
                  ‘‘(ii) any other investment hedging unit, the close of any taxable year if the applicable hedging period with respect to such unit includes such close.
          ‘‘(3) ERMINATION OR TRANSFER    .—For pur- poses of this part, the term ‘termination or transfer’ includes, with respect to any derivative, any termi- nation or transfer by offsetting, by taking or making delivery, by exercise or being exercised, by assign- ment or being assigned, by lapse, by sale or other disposition, by assumption, or otherwise.
     ‘‘(d) REATMENT OF   P AYMENTS  W ITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN  DERIVATIVES .—Notwithstanding any other pro- vision of this title—
          ‘‘(1)N GENERAL  .—Except as provided in regu- lations prescribed by the Secretary, in the case of a payment pursuant to a derivative (other than an op- tion)—
              ‘‘(A) any item of income, deduction, gain, or loss with respect to the payment shall be taken into account for purposes of this title at the time of the payment, and
              ‘‘(B) proper adjustment shall be made in the amount of any subsequent gain or loss for items taken into account by reason of subpara- graph (A). This paragraph shall not apply to a payment in con- nection with a taxable event.
         ‘‘(2) RULES RELATING TO CHARACTER AND SOURCE OF GAIN OR LOSS .—In the case of any item of income, deduction, gain, or loss with respect to payments described in paragraph (1)—
              ‘‘(A) the rules of subsection (b)(1)(A) shall apply in determining the character of such item, and
              ‘‘(B) except as provided in section 871(m), the rule of subsection (b)(1)(B) shall apply in determining the source of such item.
     ‘‘(e) USPENSION OF  HOLDING  PERIOD  W HILE UN - DERLYING  NVESTMENT   P ART OF H EDGING  UNIT.—For purposes of section 1222, in the case of any underlying investment which is part of an investment hedging unit, the holding period for such investment shall not include any period during which the underlying investment is part of such unit.
     ‘‘(f) A PPLICABLE   F INANCIAL   STATEMENT  .—For purposes of this part, the term ‘applicable financial state- ment’ means—
          ‘‘(1) a financial statement which is certified as being prepared in accordance with generally accept- ed accounting principles and which is—
               ‘‘(A) a 10-K (or successor form), or annual statement to shareholders, required to be filed by the taxpayer with the United States Securi- ties and Exchange Commission,
               ‘‘(B) an audited financial statement of the taxpayer which is used for—
                   ‘‘(i) credit purposes,
                   ‘‘(ii) reporting to shareholders, part- ners, or other proprietors, or to bene- ficiaries, or
                   ‘‘(iii) any other substantial nontax purpose, but only if there is no statement of the taxpayer described in subparagraph (A), or
               ‘‘(C) filed by the taxpayer with any other Federal agency for purposes other than Federal tax purposes, but only if there is no statement of the taxpayer described in subparagraph (A) or (B),
          ‘‘(2) a financial statement which is made on the basis of international financial reporting standards and is filed by the taxpayer with an agency of a for- eign government which is equivalent to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and which has reporting standards not less stringent than the standards required by such Commission, but only if there is no statement of the taxpayer de- scribed in paragraph (1), or
          ‘‘(3) a financial statement filed by the taxpayer with any other regulatory or governmental body specified by the Secretary, but only if there is no statement of the taxpayer described in paragraph
     (1) or (2).
 ‘‘SEC. 492. INVESTMENT HEDGING UNITS.
     ‘‘(a) NVESTMENT   HEDGING  U NIT.—For purposes of this part—
          ‘‘(1) N GENERAL .—Except as provided in sub- section (b)—
              ‘‘(A) a taxpayer shall be treated as having an investment hedging unit with respect to an underlying investment during any applicable hedging period with respect to the underlying investment, and
               ‘‘(B) subject to paragraph (3), such invest- ment hedging unit shall at any time during the applicable hedging period consist of the fol- lowing held by the taxpayer at such time:
                   ‘‘(i) Each derivative with respect to the underlying investment which by itself, or in combination with 1 or more other de- rivatives, has a delta with respect to any portion of the underlying investment which is within the range beginning with minus 0.7 and ending with minus 1.0.
                   ‘‘(ii) The portions of the underlying investment described in clause (i) with re- spect to which the derivatives have the delta described in clause (i).
          ‘‘(2) APPLICABLE HEDGING PERIOD    .—The term ‘applicable hedging period’ means, with respect to any underlying investment of a taxpayer, a contin- uous period—
               ‘‘(A) beginning with the first time (after a period which is not an applicable hedging pe- riod) the taxpayer holds 1 or more of the de- rivatives with respect to the underlying invest- ment, and 1 or more portions of the underlying investment, which are described in paragraph
          (1)(B), and
              ‘‘(B) ending with the time none of such de- rivatives and portions are so described.
          ‘‘(3) IMITATION ON COMBINATION OF DERIVA   - TIVES IN DETERMINING DELTA     .—For purposes of paragraph (1)(B), the determination of which de- rivatives with respect to an underlying investment have a delta within the range described in paragraph
     (1)(B)(i), and the portion of the underlying invest- ment with respect to which such derivatives have such delta, shall be made in the manner which re- sults in the largest portion of such underlying in- vestment being so described.
     ‘‘(b) LECTION  W ITH RESPECT TO  ITEMS INCLUDED ININVESTMENT   H EDGING U NIT.—
          ‘‘(1)N GENERAL  .—A taxpayer may elect with respect to any underlying investment to treat for purposes of this part all derivatives with respect to such underlying investment, and all of such under- lying investment, as part of an investment hedging unit.
          ‘‘(2) LECTION .—Any election under this sub- section with respect to an underlying investment—
               ‘‘(A) shall apply to all derivatives with re- spect to the underlying investment, and all of the underlying investment, held at any time after the election is made (including during any period such derivatives or underlying invest- ment are not held simultaneously), and
               ‘‘(B) shall be irrevocable.
          ‘‘(3) DEEMED ELECTION FOR TAXPAYERS FAIL     - ING TO IDENTIFY  .—
               ‘‘(A) N GENERAL  .—If a taxpayer—
                   ‘‘(i) does not have an election in effect under paragraph (1) with respect to an un- derlying investment, and
                   ‘‘(ii) fails to meet the requirements of subsection (c) for testing and identifying derivatives with respect to the underlying investment, the taxpayer shall be treated as having made the election under paragraph (1).
               ‘‘(B) T REATMENT    OF  ELECTION  .—For purposes of paragraph (2), a deemed election under this paragraph—
                   ‘‘(i) shall be treated as made as of the first time the taxpayer fails to meet the re- quirements of subsection (c) with respect to the underlying investment, and
                  ‘‘(ii) notwithstanding paragraph
              (2)(B), may be revoked with the consent of the Secretary.
     ‘‘(c) EFINITIONS AND   RULES  R ELATING TO  TAX - PAYERS IDENTIFYING  INVESTMENT   HEDGING  U NITS.—In the case of a taxpayer with respect to which an election is not in effect under subsection (b) with respect to an underlying investment—
          ‘‘(1)N GENERAL  .—The taxpayer shall, at the times described in paragraph (3), test the derivatives with respect to the underlying investment and make the identifications described in paragraph (2).
          ‘‘(2)DENTIFICATION .—
              ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL  .—The taxpayer shall identify the following with respect to an under- lying investment:
                  ‘‘(i) Each derivative described in sub- section (a)(1)(B)(i).
                  ‘‘(ii) The portions of the underlying investment described in subsection
              (a)(1)(B)(ii).
              ‘‘(B) DERIVATIVES AND UNDERLYING IN    - VESTMENT NOT PART OF HEDGING UNIT      .—A taxpayer shall identify the derivatives with re- spect to an underlying investment, and the por- tions of the underlying investment, which are not required to be identified under subpara- graph (A).
               ‘‘(C) ORTION MAY INCLUDE ALL OF UN      - DERLYING INVESTMENT    .—For purposes of this part, the term ‘portion’ with respect to any un- derlying investment identified may include all of the underlying investment.
          ‘‘(3) IMES IDENTIFICATIONS REQUIRED TO BE MADE  .—
               ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL  .—The taxpayer shall test and make the identifications required under this subsection at the following times during any continuous period the taxpayer si- multaneously holds 1 or more derivatives with respect to an underlying investment and 1 or more portions of the underlying investment:
                   ‘‘(i) The beginning of the period.
                   ‘‘(ii) Immediately after the taxpayer (during such period)—
                        ‘‘(I) enters into another deriva- tive with respect to the underlying in- vestment or acquires an additional amount of such underlying invest- ment, or
                        ‘‘(II) terminates or transfers 1 or more derivatives with respect to the underlying investment or sells or ex- changes any portion of the underlying investment, except that no testing and identification shall be required under this subclause with respect to any such transaction if the taxpayer does not have an investment hedging unit with respect to the underlying invest- ment immediately before such trans- action.
                   ‘‘(iii) Such other times during such period as the Secretary may prescribe by regulations or other guidance.
               ‘‘(B) NO OTHER TIMES FOR TESTING      .— Except as provided by the Secretary, there shall not be taken into account for purposes of this part any testing and identification done by the taxpayer with respect to an underlying invest- ment at a time other than the times required under subparagraph (A).
          ‘‘(4) MANNER  .—A taxpayer shall be treated as timely making the identifications required under this subsection if derivatives with respect to, and por- tions of, an underlying investment are clearly identi- fied as part of (or as not part of) the investment hedging unit for purposes of this paragraph before the close of the day on which the identification is re- quired (or such other time as the Secretary may pre- scribe).
          ‘‘(5) TREATMENT OF INCORRECT IDENTIFICA       - TION OF HEDGING TRANSACTIONS      .—The Secretary shall prescribe regulations to properly characterize any income, gain, expense, or loss arising from any derivative or underlying investment which is incor- rectly identified under paragraph (2) as being part of, or not being part of, an investment hedging unit.
      ‘‘(d) ELTA .—For purposes of this section—
          ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL  .—The term ‘delta’ means, with respect to any derivative and underlying invest- ment, the ratio of the expected change in the fair market value of the derivative to any change in the fair market value of the underlying investment.
          ‘‘(2) METHOD OF DETERMINATION     .—The delta with respect to any derivative with respect to an un- derlying investment (or any combination of such de- rivatives) shall be determined—
              ‘‘(A) in a commercially reasonable manner, and
              ‘‘(B) except as provided by the Secretary, in a manner which is consistent with the man- ner used by the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s broker for purposes of an applicable financial statement.
          ‘‘(3) IME FOR MAKING DETERMINATION    .—The delta with respect to any derivative and underlying investment shall be determined as of any date the taxpayer is required to make the identifications de- scribed in subsection (c).
          ‘‘(4) MULTIPLE UNDERLYING INVESTMENTS     .—
              ‘‘(A) N GENERAL  .—Except as provided in subparagraph (B), if the value of a derivative is determined by reference to more than 1 under- lying investment, the delta shall be determined separately with respect to each underlying in- vestment.
              ‘‘(B) M ETHODS FOR CERTAIN COMBINA      - TIONS  OF  UNDERLYING   INVESTMENTS   .—The Secretary may by regulations provide methods for determining the delta of any derivative with respect to certain combinations of 2 or more underlying investments.
     ‘‘(e) OTHER  D EFINITIONS AND   RULES .—For pur- poses of this part—
          ‘‘(1) NDERLYING INVESTMENT    .—
              ‘‘(A) N GENERAL   .—The term ‘underlying investment’ means, with respect to any deriva- tive, any item—
                   ‘‘(i) which is described in any of the paragraphs (1) through (8) of section 493(a) (or any item substantially the same as any such item), and
                   ‘‘(ii) by reference to which the value of the derivative is determined either di- rectly or indirectly.
              ‘‘(B) COORDINATION WITH SECTION 475   .— In the case of a dealer in securities to which section 475 applies (and a dealer in commod- ities with respect to which an election is in ef- fect under section 475(e)), such term shall not include any item which, but for this subpara- graph, would be treated as an underlying in- vestment if such item is treated as a security under section 475 (including a commodity treated as a security under section 475(e)).
          ‘‘(2) ESTABLISHMENT OF INVESTMENT HEDG        - ING UNIT .—A taxpayer shall be treated as having established an investment hedging unit with respect to an underlying investment—
               ‘‘(A) in the case of a taxpayer with an election in effect under subsection (b) with re- spect to the underlying investment, as of the date the election takes effect, and
               ‘‘(B) in the case of any other taxpayer, as of the beginning of each applicable hedging pe- riod with respect to the underlying investment.
          ‘‘(3) RELATED PARTIES  , ETC.—For purposes of this section—
               ‘‘(A) A TTRIBUTION  BETWEEN    RELATED PERSONS  .—Any derivative or underlying invest- ment held by a related party (within the mean- ing of subsection (f)) with respect to the tax- payer shall be treated as held by the taxpayer.
               ‘‘(B) C  ERTAIN   FLOWTHROUGH     ENTI   - TIES .—If part or all of the income, gain, loss, or expense with respect to a derivative or un- derlying investment held by a partnership, trust, or other entity would properly be taken into account for purposes of this chapter by the taxpayer, then, except to the extent otherwise provided in regulations, such derivative or in- vestment shall be treated as held by the tax- payer.
     ‘‘(f) RELATED   PARTY .—For purposes of this sec- tion—
          ‘‘(1) N GENERAL  .—A person is a related party to the taxpayer if, with respect to any period during which a derivative or underlying investment is held by such person, such person—
               ‘‘(A) is the taxpayer’s spouse,
               ‘‘(B) is a dependent of the taxpayer or any other taxpayer with respect to whom the tax- payer is a dependent,
               ‘‘(C) is an individual, corporation, partner- ship, trust, or estate which controls, or is con- trolled by, (within the meaning of section 954(d)(3)) the taxpayer or any individual de- scribed in subparagraph (A) or (B) with respect to the taxpayer (or any combination thereof),
               ‘‘(D) is an individual retirement plan, Ar- cher MSA (as defined in section 220(d)), or health savings account (as defined in section 223(d)), of the taxpayer or of any individual de- scribed in subparagraph (A) or (B) with respect to the taxpayer,
               ‘‘(E) is an account under a qualified tui- tion program described in section 529, an ABLE account (as defined in section 529A(f)(6)), or a Coverdell education savings account (as defined in section 530(b)) if the taxpayer, or any individual described in sub- paragraph (A) or (B) with respect to the tax- payer, is the designated beneficiary of such ac- count or has the right to make any decision with respect to the investment of any amount in such account,
               ‘‘(F) is an account under—
                   ‘‘(i) a plan described in section 401(a),
                   ‘‘(ii) an annuity plan described in sec- tion 403(a),
                   ‘‘(iii) an annuity contract described in section 403(b), or
                   ‘‘(iv) an eligible deferred compensa- tion plan described in section 457(b) and maintained by an employer described in section 457(e)(1)(A), if the taxpayer or any individual described in subparagraph (A) or (B) with respect to the taxpayer has the right to make any decision with respect to the investment of any amount in such account, or
               ‘‘(G) files a consolidated return (within the meaning of section 1501) with the taxpayer for any taxable year which includes a portion of such period.
          ‘‘(2) DETERMINATION OF MARITAL STATUS     .—
               ‘‘(A) N GENERAL  .—Except as provided in subparagraph (B), marital status shall be deter- mined under section 7703.
               ‘‘(B) SPECIAL RULE FOR MARRIED INDI      - VIDUALS   FILING  SEPARATELY    AND   LIVING APART .—A husband and wife who—
                   ‘‘(i) file separate returns for any tax- able year, and
                   ‘‘(ii) live apart at all times during such taxable year, shall not be treated as married individuals.
      ‘‘(g) EGULATIONS  .—The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations or other guidance as may be appropriate to carry out this section, including regulations or guidance which require in appropriate cases a taxpayer to bifurcate derivatives described in subsection (d)(4) for purposes of applying this part or which may be necessary to prevent the avoidance of the purposes of subsection (f) (including treating persons as related parties if such persons are formed or availed of to avoid the purposes of such sub- section).
 ‘‘SEC. 493. DERIVATIVE DEFINED.
      ‘‘(a)NIG ENERAL  .—For purposes of this part, except as otherwise provided in this section, the term ‘derivative’ means any contract (including any option, forward con- tract, futures contract, short position, swap, or similar contract) the value of which, or any payment or other transfer with respect to which, is (directly or indirectly) determined by reference to one or more of the following:
          ‘‘(1) Any share of stock in a corporation.
          ‘‘(2) Any partnership or beneficial ownership interest in a partnership or trust.
          ‘‘(3) Any evidence of indebtedness.
          ‘‘(4) Except as provided in subsection (b)(1), any real property.
          ‘‘(5) Any commodity which is actively traded (within the meaning of section 1092(c)(4)).
          ‘‘(6) Any currency.
          ‘‘(7) Any rate, price, amount, index, formula, or algorithm.
          ‘‘(8) Any other item as the Secretary may pre- scribe. Except as provided in regulations prescribed by the Sec- retary to prevent the avoidance of the purposes of this part, such term shall not include any item described in paragraphs (1) through (8).
     ‘‘(b) EXCEPTIONS .—
          ‘‘(1) ERTAIN REAL PROPERTY    .—
               ‘‘(A) N GENERAL  .—For purposes of this part, the term ‘derivative’ shall not include any contract with respect to interests in real prop- erty (as defined in section 856(c)(5)(C)) if such contract requires physical delivery of such real property.
               ‘‘(B) PTIONS TO SETTLE IN CASH   .—
                   ‘‘(i) N GENERAL   .—For purposes of subparagraph (A), a contract which pro- vides for an option of cash settlement shall not be treated as requiring physical deliv- ery of real property unless the option is—
                        ‘‘(I) not exercisable uncondition- ally, and
                        ‘‘(II) exercisable only in unusual and exceptional circumstances.
                   ‘‘(ii) OPTION   OF   CASH   SETTLE  - MENT .—For purposes of clause (i), a con- tract provides an option of cash settlement if the contract settles in (or could be set- tled in) cash or property other than the underlying real property.
          ‘‘(2) HEDGING TRANSACTIONS    .—
               ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL  .—For purposes of this part, the term ‘derivative’ shall not include any contract which is part of a hedging transaction (as defined in section 1221(b)).
               ‘‘(B) S ECTION    988  HEDGING   TRANS   - ACTIONS .—For exception for section 988 hedg- ing transactions, see section 988(d)(1).
          ‘‘(3) SECURITIES LENDING   ,SALE -REPURCHASE  , AND SIMILAR FINANCING TRANSACTIONS       .—To the extent provided by the Secretary, for purposes of this part, the term ‘derivative’ shall not include the right to the return of the same or substantially iden- tical securities transferred in a securities lending transaction, sale-repurchase transaction, or similar financing transaction.
          ‘‘(4) OPTIONS RECEIVED IN CONNECTION WITH THE PERFORMANCE OF SERVICES     .—For purposes of this part, the term ‘derivative’ shall not include any option described in section 83(e)(3) received in con- nection with the performance of services.
          ‘‘(5) NSURANCE CONTRACTS     ,ANNUITIES  ,AND ENDOWMENTS   .—For purposes of this part, the term ‘derivative’ shall not include any insurance, annuity, or endowment contract issued by an insurance com- pany to which subchapter L applies (or issued by any foreign corporation to which such subchapter would apply if such foreign corporation were a do- mestic corporation).
          ‘‘(6) DERIVATIVES WITH RESPECT TO STOCK OF MEMBERS OF SAME WORLDWIDE AFFILIATED GROUP .—For purposes of this part, the term ‘deriv- ative’ shall not include any derivative (determined without regard to this paragraph) with respect to stock issued by any member of the same worldwide affiliated group (as defined in section 864(f)) in which the taxpayer is a member.
          ‘‘(7) COMMODITIES USED IN NORMAL COURSE OF TRADE OR BUSINESS   .—For purposes of this part, the term ‘derivative’ shall not include any contract with respect to any commodity if—
               ‘‘(A) such contract requires physical deliv- ery with the option of cash settlement only in unusual and exceptional circumstances, and
               ‘‘(B) such commodity is used (and is used in quantities with respect to which such deriva- tive relates) in the normal course of the tax- payer’s trade or business (or, in the case of an individual, for personal consumption).
     ‘‘(c) CONTRACTS  W ITH  E MBEDDED   D ERIVATIVE COMPONENTS  .—
         ‘‘(1) N GENERAL .—If a contract has derivative and nonderivative components, then each derivative component shall be treated as a derivative for pur- poses of this part. If the derivative component can- not be separately valued, then the entire contract shall be treated as a derivative for purposes of this part.
         ‘‘(2) XCEPTION FOR CERTAIN EMBEDDED DE     - RIVATIVE COMPONENTS OF DEBT INSTRUMENTS    .—A debt instrument shall not be treated as having a de- rivative component merely because—
              ‘‘(A) such debt instrument is denominated in a nonfunctional currency (as defined in sec- tion 988(c)(1)(C)(ii)), or
              ‘‘(B) payments with respect to such debt instrument are determined by reference to the value of a nonfunctional currency (as so de- fined).
     ‘‘(d) REATMENT OF    AMERICAN  D EPOSITORY  RE - CEIPTS AND  SIMILAR INSTRUMENTS  .—Except as other- wise provided by the Secretary, for purposes of this part, American depository receipts (and similar instruments) with respect to shares of stock in foreign corporations shall be treated as shares of stock in such foreign corpora- tions. ‘‘Subpart B—Similar Contracts
>     ‘‘Sec. 494. Tax treatment of contracts similar to derivatives.
 ‘‘SEC. 494. TAX TREATMENT OF CONTRACTS SIMILAR TO DERIVATIVES.
      ‘‘(a) N  GENERAL  .—For purposes of this title, if there is a taxable transaction with respect to any applica- ble property interest, then, notwithstanding any other pro- vision of this title other than section 1032, gain or loss attributable to the taxable transaction shall be considered gain or loss from the sale or exchange of property which has the same character as the property to which the appli- cable property interest relates has (or would have) in the hands of the taxpayer.
      ‘‘(b) EFINITIONS  .—For purposes of this section—
          ‘‘(1) APPLICABLE PROPERTY INTEREST      .—The term ‘applicable property interest’ means any right or obligation with respect to property other than—
               ‘‘(A) a derivative (as defined in section 493), or
              ‘‘(B) any position in applicable property to which section 1092 applies.
         ‘‘(2) TAXABLE TRANSACTION  .—The term ‘tax- able transaction’ means, with respect to any applica- ble property interest—
              ‘‘(A) any termination or transfer (as de- fined in section 491(c)(3)) of such interest, or
              ‘‘(B) any payment in fulfillment or partial fulfillment of such interest.’’.
 SEC. 3. COORDINATION OF NEW RULES WITH EXISTING RULES.
     (a) COORDINATION  W ITH RULES FOR  D EALERS AND TRADERS .—
         (1) D ERIVATIVES NOT TREATED AS SECURI     - TIES.—Section 475(c)(2) is amended—
              (A) by adding ‘‘and’’ at the end of sub- paragraph (C),
              (B) by striking subparagraphs (D) and (E) and by redesignating subparagraph (F) as sub- paragraph (D),
              (C) by striking ‘‘subparagraph (A), (B),
         (C), (D), or (E)’’ in subparagraph (D)(i), as so redesignated, and inserting ‘‘subparagraph (A),
         (B), or (C)’’, and
               (D) by amending the last sentence to read as follows: ‘‘Such term shall not include any de- rivative to which section 491(a) applies.’’
          (2) D ERIVATIVES NOT TREATED AS COMMOD       - ITIES.—Section 475(e)(2) is amended—
               (A) by adding ‘‘and’’ at the end of sub- paragraph (A),
               (B) by striking subparagraphs (B) and (C) and by redesignating subparagraph (D) as sub- paragraph (B), and
               (C) by striking ‘‘subparagraph (A), (B) or
          (C)’’ in subparagraph (B)(i), as so redesig- nated, and inserting ‘‘subparagraph (A)’’.
          (3) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS     .—
               (A) Section 475(b) is amended by striking paragraph (4).
               (B) Section 475(d)(2)(B) is amended—
                   (i) by striking ‘‘subsection
               (c)(2)(F)(iii)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsection
               (c)(2)(D)(iii)’’, and
                   (ii) by striking ‘‘subsection (c)(2)(F)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsection (c)(2)(D)’’.
               (C) Section 475(f)(1)(D) is amended by striking ‘‘subsections (b)(4) and (d)’’ and in- serting ‘‘subsection (d)’’.
     (b) COORDINATION  W ITHS TRADDLE  RULES .—
         (1) IN GENERAL .—Section 1092 is amended to read as follows:
 ‘‘SEC. 1092. STRADDLES.
     ‘‘(a) RECOGNITION OF  L OSS IN  CASE OF  STRAD - DLES, ETC.—
         ‘‘(1) LIMITATION ON RECOGNITION OF LOSS  .—
              ‘‘(A) N GENERAL .—Any loss with respect to 1 or more positions shall be taken into ac- count for any taxable year only to the extent that the amount of such loss exceeds the unrec- ognized gain (if any) with respect to 1 or more positions which were offsetting positions with respect to 1 or more positions from which the loss arose.
              ‘‘(B) CARRYOVER   OF  LOSS .—Any loss which may not be taken into account under subparagraph (A) for any taxable year shall, subject to the limitations under subparagraph
         (A), be treated as sustained in the succeeding taxable year.
         ‘‘(2) UNRECOGNIZED GAIN   .—For purposes of this subsection—
              ‘‘(A) N GENERAL  .—The term ‘unrecog- nized gain’ means—
                   ‘‘(i) in the case of any position held by the taxpayer as of the close of the tax- able year, the amount of gain which would be taken into account with respect to such position if such position were sold on the last business day of such taxable year at its fair market value, and
                   ‘‘(ii) in the case of any position with respect to which, as of the close of the tax- able year, gain has been realized but not recognized, the amount of gain so realized.
               ‘‘(B) R EPORTING   OF  GAIN .—Each tax- payer shall disclose to the Secretary, at such time and in such manner and form as the Sec- retary may prescribe by regulations—
                   ‘‘(i) each position (whether or not part of a straddle) with respect to which, as of the close of the taxable year, there is unrecognized gain, and
                   ‘‘(ii) the amount of such unrecognized gain. The Secretary may waive the requirement to re- port under this subparagraph with respect to any position if such reporting is not required to carry out the purposes of this section.
          ‘‘(3) SPECIAL RULES FOR PHYSICALLY SET       - TLED POSITIONS  .—For purposes of this subsection, if a taxpayer settles a position which is part of a straddle by delivering property to which the position relates (and such position, if terminated, would re- sult in a realization of a loss), then such taxpayer shall be treated as if such taxpayer—
               ‘‘(A) terminated the position for its fair market value immediately before the settlement, and
               ‘‘(B) sold the property so delivered by the taxpayer at its fair market value.
     ‘‘(b) REGULATIONS  .—The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations with respect to gain or loss on positions which are a part of a straddle as may be appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section and section 263(g). To the extent consistent with such purposes, such regula- tions shall include rules applying the principles of sub- sections (a) and (d) of section 1091 and of subsections
(b) and (d) of section 1233 (as in effect before their re- peal).
     ‘‘(c) DEFINITIONS AND  RULES  R ELATING TO  STRAD - DLES .—For purposes of this section—
          ‘‘(1) TRADDLE DEFINED   .—The term ‘straddle’ means offsetting positions with respect to applicable property.
          ‘‘(2) O FFSETTING   POSITIONS .—A taxpayer holds offsetting positions with respect to applicable property if the taxpayer holds any position which by itself, or in combination with 1 or more other posi- tions held by the taxpayer, has a delta with respect to any other position held by the taxpayer which is within the range beginning with minus 0.7 and end- ing with minus 1.0. For purposes of this paragraph, positions shall be taken into account whether or not they are in the same applicable property.
          ‘‘(3) ELTA .—
              ‘‘(A) I N  GENERAL  .—The term ‘delta’ means, with respect to any positions in applica- ble property, the ratio of the expected change in the fair market value of 1 position to any change in the fair market value of another posi- tion.
              ‘‘(B) M ETHOD OF DETERMINATION     .—The delta with respect to any position in applicable property with respect to another position in ap- plicable property (or any combination of such positions) shall be determined—
                   ‘‘(i) in a commercially reasonable manner, and
                   ‘‘(ii) except as provided by the Sec- retary, in a manner which is consistent with the manner used by the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s broker for purposes of an applicable financial statement.
              ‘‘(C) T IMING OF DELTA DETERMINATION AND OTHER SPECIAL RULES    .—Rules similar to the rules of paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 492(d) shall apply for purposes of this para- graph.
          ‘‘(4) PPLICABLE PROPERTY AND POSITION DE     - FINED .—
              ‘‘(A) A PPLICABLE PROPERTY   .—The term ‘applicable property’ means any item which is—
                   ‘‘(i) described in paragraph (1), (2),
              (3), (5), (6), (7), or (8) of section 493(a) (or any item substantially the same as any such item), and
                   ‘‘(ii) of a type which is actively trad- ed.
              ‘‘(B) POSITION .—
                   ‘‘(i) N GENERAL   .—The term ‘posi- tion’ means an interest in applicable prop- erty.
                   ‘‘(ii) ERIVATIVES EXCLUDED   .—Such term shall not include a derivative (as de- fined in section 493).
          ‘‘(5) POSITIONS HELD BY RELATED PERSONS      , ETC .—
               ‘‘(A) N GENERAL  .—In determining wheth- er 2 or more positions are offsetting, the tax- payer shall be treated as holding any position held by a related party (within the meaning of section 492(f)).
               ‘‘(B) C ERTAIN    FLOWTHROUGH     ENTI  - TIES.—If part or all of the gain or loss with re- spect to a position held by a partnership, trust, or other entity would properly be taken into ac- count for purposes of this chapter by a tax- payer, then, except to the extent otherwise pro- vided in regulations, such position shall be treated as held by the taxpayer.
          ‘‘(6) S PECIAL  RULES   FOR  FOREIGN   CUR   - RENCY  .—
               ‘‘(A) POSITION TO INCLUDE INTEREST IN CERTAIN DEBT   .—For purposes of paragraph
          (4)(B)(i), an obligor’s interest in a nonfunc- tional currency denominated debt obligation is treated as a position in the nonfunctional cur- rency.
              ‘‘(B) ACTIVELY TRADED REQUIREMENT    .— For purposes of paragraph (4)(A)(ii), foreign currency for which there is an active interbank market is presumed to be actively traded.
     ‘‘(d) XCEPTION FOR   HEDGING  T RANSACTIONS AND INVESTMENT   H EDGING  UNITS .—This section shall not apply in the case of—
          ‘‘(1) any hedging transaction (as defined in sec- tion 1221(b)), and
          ‘‘(2) any investment hedging unit (as defined in section 492).
     ‘‘(e) ROSS  R EFERENCE .—For provision requiring capitalization of certain interest and carrying charges where there is a straddle, see section 263(g).’’.
          (2) ONFORMING AMENDMENTS     .—The last sen- tence of section 246(c)(4) is amended—
              (A) by inserting ‘‘(as in effect before its re- peal)’’ after ‘‘section 1092(c)(4)’’, and
              (B) by inserting ‘‘(as so in effect)’’ after ‘‘section 1092(f)’’.
     (c) DEBT  INSTRUMENTS   H ELD BY INSURANCE   COM - PANIES .—
          (1) IN GENERAL   .—Subsection (a) of section 1221 is amended by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of paragraph (7), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (8) and inserting ‘‘; or’’, and by adding at the end the following:
          ‘‘(9) any bond, debenture, note, or certificate or other evidence of indebtedness held by an applicable insurance company (as defined in subsection
     (b)(5)).’’.
          (2) A PPLICABLE INSURANCE COMPANY     .—Sec- tion 1221(b), as amended by this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:
          ‘‘(5) PPLICABLE INSURANCE COMPANY     .—For purposes of subsection (a)(9)—
              ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL  .—The term ‘applicable insurance company’ means, with respect to any taxable year, an insurance company (as defined in the last sentence of section 816(a))—
                   ‘‘(i) which is subject to tax under sec- tion 801(a)(1) or section 831(a),
                   ‘‘(ii) with respect to which sections 831(b), 835, 842, and 847 do not apply, and
                   ‘‘(iii) which is not treated as a stock insurance company solely by reason of sec- tion 833(a)(1).
               ‘‘(B) PERMANENT TREATMENT BY COM        - PANY AS ORDINARY ASSET      .—If an asset is treated as an asset described in subsection (a)
          (9) with respect to any applicable insurance company for any taxable year, such asset shall be treated as so described during any subse- quent taxable year such asset is held by such company.’’.
          (3) R EGULATIONS  .—Paragraph (4) of section 1221(b) is amended—
               (A) by striking ‘‘The Secretary’’ and in- serting:
               ‘‘(A) ELATED PARTIES   .—The Secretary’’, and
               (B) by adding at the end the following:
               ‘‘(B) A SSETS  OF   INSURANCE   COMPA   - NIES.—The Secretary shall prescribe such regu- lations as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of subsection (a)(9), in- cluding such regulations as may be necessary to prevent the avoidance of Federal income tax through the sale or exchange of assets described in such subsection.’’.
          (4) EFFECTIVE DATE  .—
              (A) IN GENERAL  .—The amendments made by this subsection shall apply to any bond, de- benture, note, or certificate or other evidence of indebtedness held or acquired after the 90-day period beginning with the date of the enactment of this Act.
              (B) T RANSITION RULE  .—If a taxpayer has a capital loss carryover to any taxable year of the taxpayer beginning after the close of the 90-day period described in subparagraph (A), the taxpayer shall, in addition to other short- term capital gain of the taxpayer (if any), treat as short-term capital gain (rather than as ordi- nary income) an amount equal to the lesser of—
                   (i) the net gain (if any) from sales or exchanges during such taxable year of as- sets to which section 1221(a)(9) of such Code (as added by paragraph (1)) applies, or
                  (ii) the capital loss carryovers to such taxable year from taxable years beginning before the close of such period.
     (d) RICS A LLOWED  N ET OPERATING  L OSS DEDUC - TION.—
         (1) IN GENERAL   .—Paragraph (2) of section 852(b) is amended by striking subparagraph (B) and by redesignating subparagraphs (C) through (G) as subparagraphs (B) through (F), respectively.
         (2) RESTRICTION ON CARRYBACK OF LOSSES   .— Subparagraph (B) of section 172(b)(1) is amend- ed—
              (A) by striking ‘‘REIT’’ each place it ap- pears in the text and inserting ‘‘RIC or REIT’’,
              (B) by striking ‘‘part II of subchapter M (relating to real estate investment trusts)’’ in clause (iii) and inserting ‘‘part I or II of sub- chapter M’’,
              (C) by striking ‘‘‘REIT’’S’’ in the heading for such subparagraph and inserting ‘‘‘RIC’’s or REIT’s’’, and
              (D) by striking ‘‘REIT’’ in the heading for clause (iii) and inserting ‘‘RIC or REIT’’.
         (3) O THER MODIFICATIONS .—Paragraph (6) of section 172(d) is amended to read follows:
          ‘‘(6) MODIFICATIONS RELATED TO RICS AND REITS .—In the case of any taxable year for which part I or II of subchapter M applies to the tax- payer—
              ‘‘(A) the net operating loss for such tax- able year shall be computed by taking into ac- count—
                   ‘‘(i) in the case of a regulated invest- ment company, the adjustments described in section 852(b)(2) (other than the deduc- tion for dividends paid described in sub- paragraph (C) thereof)), and
                   ‘‘(ii) in the case of a real estate in- vestment trust, the adjustments described in section 857(b)(2) (other than the deduc- tion for dividends paid described in sub- paragraph (B) thereof), and
              ‘‘(B) where such taxable year is a ‘prior taxable year’ referred to in paragraph (2) of subsection (b), references in such paragraph to ‘taxable income’ shall be treated as references to—
                   ‘‘(i) in the case of a regulated invest- ment company, regulated investment com- pany taxable income (as defined in section 852(b)(2), and
                 ‘‘(ii) in the case of a real estate in- vestment trust, real estate investment tax- able income (as defined in section 857(b)(2)).’’.
         (4) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS   .—
             (A) Section 852(a)(1)(A) is amended by striking ‘‘subsection (b)(2)(D)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsection (b)(2)(C)’’.
             (B) Section 4982(e)(1)(A) is amended by striking ‘‘and (D)’’ and inserting ‘‘and (C)’’.
         (5) EFFECTIVE DATE .—The amendments made by this subsection shall apply to net operating losses for taxable years ending after the 90th day after the date of the enactment of this Act.
     (e) NONRECOGNITION OF    GAIN OR   LOSS  FROM TRANSACTIONS BY A  C ORPORATION  W ITH RESPECT TO TS STOCK .—
         (1) N GENERAL  .—Section 1032 is amended to read as follows:
 ‘‘SEC. 1032. TRANSACTIONS BY A CORPORATION WITH RE- SPECT TO ITS STOCK.
     ‘‘(a) ONRECOGNITION ON    EXCHANGE OF   S TOCK FOR PROPERTY .—No gain or loss shall be recognized to a corporation on the receipt of money or other property in exchange for stock of such corporation.
     ‘‘(b) ERIVATIVE T RANSACTIONS BY A  CORPORATION W ITH RESPECT TO  TS STOCK .—
          ‘‘(1) N GENERAL  .—Except as otherwise pro- vided in this subsection, section 1032 derivative items of a corporation shall not be taken into ac- count in determining such corporation’s liability for tax under this subtitle.
          ‘‘(2)NCOME RECOGNITION ON CERTAIN FOR      - WARD CONTRACTS   .—
              ‘‘(A) N GENERAL .—If—
                  ‘‘(i) a corporation acquires its stock, and
                  ‘‘(ii) such acquisition is part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which the corporation enters into a for- ward contract with respect to its stock, such corporation shall include amounts in in- come as if the excess of the amount to be re- ceived under the forward contract over the fair market value of the stock as of the date the corporation entered into the forward contract were original issue discount on a debt instru- ment acquired on such date. The preceding sen- tence shall apply only to the extent that the amount of stock involved in the forward con- tract does not exceed the amount acquired as described in clause (i).
               ‘‘(B) P LAN PRESUMED TO EXIST      .—If a corporation enters into a forward contract with respect to its stock within the 60-day period be- ginning on the date which is 30 days before the date that the corporation acquires its stock, such acquisition shall be treated as pursuant to a plan described in subparagraph (A)(ii) unless it is established that entering into such contract and such acquisition are not pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions.
      ‘‘(c) ECTION  1032 D  ERIVATIVE  ITEMS .—For pur- poses of this section, the term ‘section 1032 derivative item’ means, with respect to any corporation, any item of income, gain, loss, or deduction if—
          ‘‘(1) such item arises out of the rights or obli- gations under any derivative (as defined in section 493) to the extent such derivative relates to the cor- poration’s stock (or is attributable to any transfer or extinguishment of any such right or obligation), or
          ‘‘(2) such item arises under any other contract or position but only to the extent that such item re- flects (or is determined by reference to) changes in the value of such stock or distributions thereon. Such term shall not include any deduction with respect to which section 83(h) applies and shall not include any deduction for any item which is in the nature of compensa- tion for services rendered. For purposes of this subpara- graph, de minimis relationships, as determined by the Sec- retary, shall be disregarded.
     ‘‘(d) COORDINATION  W ITH D ERIVATIVE AND  S TRAD - DLE R ULES .—In the case of a derivative or other contract or position described in subsection (c) which is held by a corporation with respect to its stock—
          ‘‘(1) this section (rather than part IV of sub- chapter E or section 1092) shall apply in deter- mining the treatment of section 1032 derivative items under this subtitle, and
          ‘‘(2) such derivative or other contract or posi- tion shall not be taken into account in determining whether the corporation has an investment hedging unit, applicable property interest, or straddle with respect to its stock for purposes of such part or sec- tion.
     ‘‘(e) REGULATIONS  .—The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations or other guidance as may be appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section, including regula- tions or other guidance which treat the portion of an in- strument which is described in subsection (c)(1) separately from the portion of such instrument which is not so de- scribed.
     ‘‘(f) ASI.—For basis of property acquired by a cor- poration in certain exchanges for its stock, see section 362.’’.
         (2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT   .—The item relating to section 1032 in the table of sections for part III of subchapter O of chapter 1 is amended to read as follows:
>     ‘‘Sec. 1032.Transactions by a corporation with respect to its stock.’’.
         (3) EFFECTIVE DATE  .—The amendments made by this subsection shall apply to transactions entered into after the date of the enactment of this Act.
 SEC. 4. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
     (a) R EPEAL  OF  C ERTAIN  O THER  SUPERCEDED RULES   FOR   D ETERMINING   C APITAL   GAINS  AND LOSSES.—
         (1) IN GENERAL .—Part IV of subchapter P of chapter 1 is amended by striking sections 1233, 1234, 1234A, 1234B, 1236, 1256, 1258, 1259, and 1260 (and by striking the items relating to such sec- tions in the table of sections for such part).
          (2) C ONFORMING AMENDMENTS RELATED TO REPEAL OF SECTION 1234    .—Section 6045(h)(2) is amended—
              (A) by striking ‘‘(as defined in section 1234(b)(2)(A)’’, and
              (B) by adding at the end the following: ‘‘For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term ‘closing transaction’ means any termi- nation of the taxpayer’s obligation under an op- tion in property other than through the exercise or lapse of the option.’’.
          (3) C ONFORMING AMENDMENTS RELATED TO REPEAL OF SECTION 1236  .—
              (A) Section 475(d)(3)(A) is amended by striking ‘‘or section 1236(b)’’.
              (B) Section 512(b)(5) is amended by strik- ing ‘‘section 1236(c)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 1058(c)’’.
              (C) Section 1058 is amended—
                   (i) by striking ‘‘(as defined in section 1236(c))’’ in subsection (a), and
                   (ii) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d) and by inserting after sub- section (b) the following new subsection:
      ‘‘(c) ECURITIES .—For purposes of this section, the term ‘security’ means any share of stock in any corpora- tion, certificate of stock or interest in any corporation, note, bond, debenture, or evidence of indebtedness, or any evidence of an interest in or right to subscribe to or pur- chase any of the foregoing.’’.
          (4) C ONFORMING AMENDMENTS RELATED TO REPEAL OF SECTION 1256  .—
               (A)(i) Section 461(i)(3)(B) is amended to read as follows:
               ‘‘(B) any partnership or other entity (other than a corporation which is not an S corpora- tion) if more than 35 percent of the losses of such entity during the taxable year are allocable to limited partners or limited entrepreneurs (within the meaning of subsection (k)(4)), and’’.
                   (ii) Section 461 is amended—
                        (I) by redesignating the second subsection (j) (relating to farming syndicate defined) as subsection (k), and
                        (II) by striking ‘‘subsection (j)’’ in subsection (i)(4) and inserting ‘‘subsection (k)’’.
              (B) Section 475(d)(1) is amended by strik- ing ‘‘sections 263(g), 263A, and 1256(a)’’ and inserting ‘‘sections 263(g) and 263A’’.
              (C) Section 988(c)(1) is amended by strik- ing subparagraphs (D) and (E).
              (D) Section 1212 is amended by striking subsection (c).
              (E) Section 1223 is amended by striking paragraphs (7) and (14).
              (F) Section 1281(b)(1)(E) is amended to read as follows:
              ‘‘(E) is part of a hedging transaction (as defined in section 1221(b)) or an investment hedging unit (as defined in section 492), or’’.
              (G) Section 1402 is amended by striking subsection (i).
              (H) Section 4982(e)(6)(B) is amended by striking ‘‘sections 1256 and 1296’’ and insert- ing ‘‘sections 491 and 1296’’.
          (5) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS RELATED TO REPEAL OF SECTION 1259    .—Section 475(f)(1) is amended by striking subparagraph (C) and by redes- ignating subparagraph (D) as subparagraph (C).
     (b) OTHER  CONFORMING   AMENDMENTS   .—
         (1) Section 355(g)(2)(B)(i)(V) is amended to read as follows:
                      ‘‘(V) any derivative (as defined in section 493),’’.
         (2) Section 856(n)(4) is amended by inserting ‘‘or derivatives (as defined in section 493)’’ after ‘‘securities (as defined in section 475(c)(2))’’.
         (3) Section 857(e)(2)(C)(i) is amended by strik- ing ‘‘section 860E or 1272’’ and inserting ‘‘section 491, 860E, or 1272’’.
         (4) Section 988(d)(1) is amended—
              (A) by striking ‘‘or 1256’’ and inserting ‘‘or 491’’, and
              (B) by striking ‘‘1092, and 1256’’ and in- serting ‘‘491, and 1092’’.
         (5) Section 1091(e) is amended to read as fol- lows:
     ‘‘(e) OORDINATION   W ITH M ARK TO   MARKET OF DERIVATIVES  AND   U NDERLYING   INVESTMENTS  .—For purposes of this section, the term ‘stock or securities’ shall not include—
         ‘‘(1) any derivative (as defined in section 493), or
         ‘‘(2) any underlying investment (as defined in section 492(e)(1)) which, at the time of the sale or other disposition, is part of an investment hedging unit (as defined in section 492).’’.
          (6)(A) Section 1221(a)(6) is amended to read as follows:
          ‘‘(6) any—
               ‘‘(A) derivative (as defined in section 493), or
               ‘‘(B) any underlying investment (as de- fined in section 492(e)(1)) which is part of an investment hedging unit (as defined in section 492),’’.
          (B) Section 1221(b) is amended by striking paragraph (1).
          (7) Section 4975(f)(11)(D) is amended by striking clauses (i) and (ii) and inserting the fol- lowing:
                   ‘‘(i) SECURITY .—The term ‘security’ means any security described in section 475(c)(2) (without regard to subparagraph
               (D)(iii) thereof) and any derivative with re- spect to such a security (within the mean- ing of section 493).
                   ‘‘(ii) COMMODITY  .—The term ‘com- modity’ means any commodity described in section 475(e)(2) (without regard to sub- paragraph (B)(iii) thereof) and any deriva- tive with respect to such a commodity (within the meaning of section 493).’’.
          (8) The table of parts for subchapter E of chapter 1 is amended by adding at the end the fol- lowing new item:
>      ‘‘ARTIV. AX TREATMENT OFDERIVATIVES ANSIMILACONTRACTUAL
>                     RIGHTS ANDRESPONSIBILIT’’.
 SEC. 5. EFFECTIVE DATES.
      (a) N  GENERAL  .—Except as provided in this Act—
          (1) the amendments made by section 2 shall  apply to taxable events occurring after the 90-day period beginning with the date of the enactment of this Act, in taxable years ending after the last day of such period, and
          (2) the amendments made by sections 3 and 4 shall apply to derivatives and underlying investments held after the last day of such period.
      (b) IDENTIFICATION   REQUIREMENTS   .—If, as of the close of the 90-day period described in subsection (a)(1), a taxpayer simultaneously holds 1 or more derivatives with  respect to an underlying investment and the underlying investment—
          (1) the taxpayer shall make the identifications required under section 492(c)(2) of Internal Rev- enue Code of 1986 (as added by section 2 of this Act) before the close of such period, and
           (2) if such identifications result in an invest- ment hedging unit, the first applicable hedging pe- riod with respect to such unit shall begin on the day after the close of such period.
      (c) DEFINITIONS .—For purposes of this section, any term used in this section which is also used in part IV of subchapter E of chapter 1 of such Code (as so added) shall have the same meaning as when used in such part.
