> 115TH CONGRESS
>    1STS ESSION
>                     S.ll
>     To reauthorize the National Flood Insurance Program, and for other
>                          purposes.
>     IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
>                     llllllllll
> Mr. ASSIDY(for himself and ILLIBRAN) introduced the following bill;
>    which was read twice and referred to the Committee on
>    llllllllll
>                      A BILL
>  To reauthorize the National Flood Insurance Program, and
>                     for other purposes.
     Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
 SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Flood Insurance Af- fordability and Sustainability Act of 2017’’.
 SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS. The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
>     Sec. 1. Short title.
>     Sec. 2. Table of contents.
>     Sec. 3. Definitions.
>     Sec. 4. Extension of national flood insurance program.
>       TITLE I—ENHANCING THE SOLVENCY AND SUSTAINABILITY OF
>                 THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM
>      Sec. 101. Risk transfer.
>       TITLE II—ENHANCING FLOOD INSURANCE AFFORDABILITY AND
>                                 ACCESSIBILITY
>      Sec. 201. Use of premium surcharges.
>      Sec. 202. Disclosure with respect to the affordability standard.
>      Sec. 203. Increased cost of compliance.
>      Sec. 204. Elevation certificates.
>      Sec. 205. Mitigation provisions.
>      Sec. 206. Home structure values.
>      Sec. 207. Affordability vouchers.
>      Sec. 208. Coverage limits.
>                  TITLE III—AGREED VALUE PILOT PROGRAM
>      Sec. 301. Short title.
>      Sec. 302. Definitions.
>      Sec. 303. Agreed Value Flood Protection Program.
>      Sec. 304. Use of agreed value flood protection to satisfy requirement to pur-
>                     chase flood insurance to receive a mortgage loan.
>      Sec. 305. Agreed Value Flood Protection Program Reserve Fund.
>      Sec. 306. Rule of construction.
>               TITLE IV—PROVIDING PRIVATE MARKET ACCESS,
>                     ACCOUNTABILITY, AND COMPETITION
>      Sec. 401. Use of private flood insurance to satisfy mandatory purchase require-
>                     ment.
>      Sec. 402. Provision of private flood insurance by Write Your Own companies.
>      Sec. 403. Availability of NFIP claims data.
>      Sec. 404. Fees and surcharges for private flood insurance policies.
>      Sec. 405. Pilot program.
>         TITLE V—MODERNIZING FLOOD MAPPING AND FLOOD RISK
>                                    ACCURACY
>      Sec. 501. Reauthorization of National Flood Mapping Program.
>      Sec. 502. Mapping standards and guidelines for nongovernmental entities.
>      Sec. 503. Use of high-resolution mapping technology.
>      Sec. 504. Protected areas.
>      Sec. 505. Coastal flood models.
>       TITLE VI—ENHANCING NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM
>                    TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY
>      Sec. 601. Deadline for approval of claims.
>      Sec. 602. Flood insurance transparency, accountability, and reform.
>      Sec. 603. Reports to Congress.
  SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS. In this Act—
          (1) the term ‘‘Administrator’’ means the Ad- ministrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
          (2) the terms ‘‘Federal flood insurance’’ and ‘‘private flood insurance’’ have the meanings given those terms in section 102(b)(7) of the Flood Dis- aster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a(b)(7)), as amended by section 401(a)(1) of this Act;
          (3) the term ‘‘mandatory purchase require- ment’’ means the requirement under subsections (a) and (b) of section 102 of the Flood Disaster Protec- tion Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a), as amended by section 401 of this Act, to have flood insurance cov- erage;
          (4) the term ‘‘National Flood Insurance Pro- gram’’ means the program established under the Na- tional Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.);
          (5) the term ‘‘Write Your Own company’’ means a company that participates in the Write Your Own Program; and
          (6) the term ‘‘Write Your Own Program’’ means the cooperative undertaking between the in- surance industry and the Federal Insurance and Mitigation Administration that allows participating property and casualty insurance companies to write and service standard flood insurance policies.
 SEC. 4. EXTENSION OF NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PRO- GRAM.
     (a) FINANCING.—Section 1309(a) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4016(a)) is amended, in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘September 30, 2017’’ and inserting ‘‘September 30, 2027’’.
     (b) PROGRAM  EXPIRATION .—Section 1319 of the Na- tional Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4026) is amended by striking ‘‘September 30, 2017’’ and inserting ‘‘September 30, 2027’’. TITLE I—ENHANCING THE SOL- VENCY AND SUSTAINABILITY OF THE NATIONAL FLOOD IN- SURANCE PROGRAM
 SEC. 101. RISK TRANSFER. Section 1345 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4081) is amended by striking subsection
(e) and inserting the following:
     ‘‘(e)RISK TRANSFER .—
         ‘‘(1) N GENERAL  .—The Administrator shall annually transfer a portion of the risk associated with the flood insurance program to the private rein- surance or capital markets—
               ‘‘(A) at rates and on terms determined by the Administrator to be reasonable and appro- priate; and
               ‘‘(B) in an amount sufficient to—
                    ‘‘(i) maintain the ability of the pro- gram to pay claims; and
                    ‘‘(ii) limit the exposure of the pro- gram to potential catastrophic losses from extreme events.
          ‘‘(2) FORMS OF TRANSFER     .—In carrying out paragraph (1), the Administrator shall consider all forms of risk transfer, including traditional reinsur- ance, catastrophe bonds, collateralized reinsurance, resilience bonds, and other insurance-linked securi- ties, in order to—
               ‘‘(A) maximize pricing competition and the diversity of sources of capital; and
               ‘‘(B) secure the best value for the flood in- surance program.’’. TITLE II—ENHANCING FLOOD INSURANCE AFFORDABILITY AND ACCESSIBILITY
 SEC. 201. USE OF PREMIUM SURCHARGES. Chapter I of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4011 et seq.) is amended—
         (1) in section 1308A (42 U.S.C. 4015a)—
              (A) by redesignating subsection (c) as sub- section (d);
              (B) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
     ‘‘(c) SE OF SURCHARGES  .—The Administrator shall use any surcharge imposed and collected under subsection
(a) to help fund flood mitigation programs, including the Predisaster Hazard Mitigation Program under section 203 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Assistance and Emer- gency Relief Act (42 U.S.C. 5133) and the program estab- lished under section 1366.’’; and
              (C) in subsection (d), as so redesignated, by striking ‘‘Subsections (a) and (b)’’ and in- serting ‘‘Subsections (a) through (c)’’; and
         (2) in section 1310A(c) (42 U.S.C. 4017A(c)), by striking paragraph (4).
 SEC. 202. DISCLOSURE WITH RESPECT TO THE AFFORD- ABILITY STANDARD. Section 1308(j) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4015(j)) is amended, in the second sentence, by inserting ‘‘and shall include in the report the number of those exceptions as of the date on which the Administrator submits the report and the location of each policyholder insured under those exceptions, organized by county and State’’ after ‘‘of the Senate’’.
 SEC. 203. INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE.
     (a) INCREASE IN   L IMITATION ON   LIABILITY.—Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall amend the Standard Flood Insurance Policy set forth in Appendix A(1) to part 61 of title 44, Code of Federal Regulations, to—
          (1) increase the limitation on liability relating to ‘‘Coverage D—Increased Cost of Compliance’’ from $30,000 to $75,000; and
          (2) provide that 50 percent of the amount de- scribed in paragraph (1) shall be available to the in- sured without regard to whether making that amount available to the insured would exceed the overall policy limit of the insured.
     (b) E LIGIBILITYITEMS .—Section 1304(b) of the Na- tional Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4011(b)) is amended—
          (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘compliance with the land use and control measures.’’ and insert- ing ‘‘the implementation of such measures; and’’;
          (2) in paragraph (4), by redesignating subpara- graphs (A) through (D) as clauses (i) through (iv), respectively, and adjusting the margins accordingly;
          (3) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through
      (4) as subparagraphs (A) through (D), respectively, and adjusting the margins accordingly;
          (4) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), as so redesignated, by striking ‘‘cover the cost of im- plementing measures that are consistent with land use and control measures established by the commu- nity under section 1361 for’’ and inserting ‘‘cover the cost of—
          ‘‘(1) implementing measures that are consistent with land use and control measures established by the community under section 1361 for’’;
          (5) in paragraph (1), as so designated—
               (A) in subparagraph (C), as so redesig- nated, by striking the period at the end and in- serting ‘‘; and’’; and
               (B) in subparagraph (D)(iv), as so redesig- nated, by striking the period at the end and in- serting ‘‘; or’’; and
          (6) by inserting after paragraph (1)(D)(iv), as so redesignated, the following:
          ‘‘(2) any eligible activity under the Predisaster Hazard Mitigation Program under section 203 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Assistance and Emergency Relief Act (42 U.S.C. 5133).’’.
 SEC. 204. ELEVATION CERTIFICATES. Chapter I of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4011 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
 ‘‘SEC. 1326. PREMIUM CREDIT TO OFFSET THE COST OF OB- TAINING AN ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. ‘‘The Administrator may offer a policyholder under the national flood insurance program a 1-time credit of $500 with respect to a premium paid by the policyholder under the program in order to offset the cost incurred by the policyholder in obtaining a National Flood Insurance Program Elevation Certificate.’’.
 SEC. 205. MITIGATION PROVISIONS.
      (a) M ITIGATION  STRATEGIES  .—Section 1361(d)(1) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4102(d)(1)) is amended—
          (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
          (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end; and
          (3) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the fol- lowing:
              ‘‘(C) with respect to buildings in dense urban environments, methods that can be de- ployed on a block or neighborhood scale; and
              ‘‘(D) elevation of mechanical systems; and’’.
     (b) M ITIGATION  C REDIT.—Section 1308(k) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4015(k)) is amended—
          (1) by striking ‘‘shall take into account’’ and inserting ‘‘shall—
          ‘‘(1) take into account’’;
          (2) in paragraph (1), as so designated, by strik- ing the period at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
          (3) by adding at the end the following:
          ‘‘(2) offer a reduction of the risk premium rate charged to a policyholder in an amount that is not less than 10 percent of that rate if the policyholder implements any mitigation method described in paragraph (1).’’.
     (c) COVERAGE FOR   COOPERATIVES  .—
          (1) IN GENERAL   .—Section 1306 of the Na- tional Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4013) is amended by adding at the end the fol- lowing:
     ‘‘(e) COOPERATIVES  .—
          ‘‘(1) DEFINITION.—In this subsection, the term ‘cooperative building’ has the meaning given the term in section 1312(d).
          ‘‘(2) E QUAL  TREATMENT    WITH  CONDOMIN    - IUMS .—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an owner of a share of a cooperative building shall be eligible to purchase flood insurance coverage under the national flood insurance program on the same terms as a condominium owner.’’.
          (2) PAYMENT OF CLAIMS   .—Section 1312 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4019) is amended—
               (A) in subsection (c)—
                   (i) in the subsection heading, by in- serting AND   COOPERATIVE  ’’ after ‘ON - DOMINIUM ’’;
                   (ii) by inserting ‘‘or owners of a share of a cooperative building’’ after ‘‘condo- minium owners’’; and
                   (iii) by inserting ‘‘or cooperative asso- ciation’’ after ‘‘condominium association’’ each place that term appears; and
               (B) by adding at the end the following:
     ‘‘(d) DEFINITIONS .—In this section, the terms ‘coop- erative association’ and ‘cooperative building’ have the meanings given the terms by the Administrator.’’.
 SEC. 206. HOME STRUCTURE VALUES.
     (a) STUDY AND   REPORT .—
          (1) STUDY .—The Administrator shall conduct a study, the purpose of which shall be to—
               (A) evaluate best practices in the insurance industry for risk rating and classification, in- cluding practices that consider replacement cost value when estimating premium rates; and
               (B) with respect to the estimates made by the Administrator under section 1307(a)(1) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4014(a)(1)), as in effect on the day be- fore the date of enactment of this Act—
                   (i) assess options, methods, and strat- egies for including replacement cost value in the estimates;
                   (ii) identify recommendations for in- cluding replacement cost value in the esti- mates;
                   (iii) identify an appropriate method- ology by which replacement cost value could be incorporated into the estimates; and
                   (iv) develop a feasible implementation plan and projected timeline for including replacement cost value in the estimates.
          (2) R EPORT .—Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representa- tives a report that contains—
               (A) the results of the study conducted under paragraph (1) (referred to in this para- graph as ‘‘the study’’);
               (B) an analysis of the recommendations made by the study and the impacts that those recommendations would have on the National Flood Insurance Program, including cost con- siderations;
               (C) a description of actions taken by the Administrator to implement the recommenda- tions made by the study;
               (D) a list of any recommendations made by the study that, as of the date on which the Administrator submits the report, the Adminis- trator has deferred or upon which the Adminis- trator has not acted; and
               (E) an explanatory statement with respect to each recommendation described in subpara- graph (D).
     (b) IMPLEMENTATION   .—
          (1) IN GENERAL  .—Section 1307(a)(1)(A) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4014(a)(1)(A)) is amended—
               (A) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
               (B) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘, and’’ and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
               (C) by adding at the end the following:
                   ‘‘(iii) the replacement cost value of an insured structure when determining under- insurance loading factors, consistent with the requirements of section 1308(e) and taking into account the results of the study conducted under section 206(a)(1) of the Flood Insurance Affordability and Sustain- ability Act of 2017; and’’.
          (2) EFFECTIVE DATE   .—The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date on which the Administrator submits the report under subsection (a)(2).
 SEC. 207. AFFORDABILITY VOUCHERS. Chapter I of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4011 et seq.), as amended by section 204 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:
 ‘‘SEC. 1327. AFFORDABILITY VOUCHERS.
     ‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS .—In this section—
          ‘‘(1) the term ‘area median income’ means, with respect to an area, the area median income for the area, as defined for the applicable year by the Sec- retary of Housing and Urban Development;
          ‘‘(2) the term ‘covered expenses’ means, with respect to a household, the total amount that the household spends in a year on—
               ‘‘(A) mortgage payments;
               ‘‘(B) property taxes;
               ‘‘(C) homeowners insurance; and
               ‘‘(D) flood insurance premiums and fees; and
          ‘‘(3) the term ‘eligible household’ means an owner-occupied household—
               ‘‘(A) that has a total household income that is less than 165 percent of the area me- dian income for the area in which the household is located;
               ‘‘(B) for which the cost of flood insurance premiums and fees in a year would result in covered expenses in an amount that is more than 40 percent of the total household income of the household for that year; and
               ‘‘(C) that—
                    ‘‘(i) renews an existing flood insur- ance policy; or
                    ‘‘(ii) is required to purchase flood in- surance because of a revision of, or an up- date to, a floodplain area or flood risk zone that is identified, delineated, or established under section 1360.
      ‘‘(b) VOUCHERS  .—The Administrator shall provide a voucher to an eligible household in accordance with sub- section (c) to offset the cost of flood insurance for the eligible household for a year if the amount of the covered expenses of the eligible household for that year is greater than 40 percent of the total household income of the eligi- ble household for that year.
      ‘‘(c)CALCULATION   .—
          ‘‘(1) An eligible household that has a total household income that is not greater than 80 per- cent of area median income shall receive a voucher in an amount that is equal to 100 percent of the amount that the eligible household is required to pay in flood insurance premiums and fees for the year in which the eligible household receives the voucher.
          ‘‘(2) An eligible household that has a total household income that is greater than 80 percent of area median income and not greater than 120 per- cent of area median income shall receive a voucher in an amount that is equal to 80 percent of the amount that the eligible household is required to pay in flood insurance premiums and fees for the year in which the eligible household receives the voucher.
          ‘‘(3) An eligible household that has a total household income that is greater than 121 percent of area median income and less than 165 percent of area median income shall receive a voucher in an amount that is equal to 60 percent of the amount that the eligible household is required to pay in flood insurance premiums and fees for the year in which the eligible household receives the voucher.’’.
 SEC. 208. COVERAGE LIMITS. Section 1306(b) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4013(b)) is amended—
          (1) in paragraph (1)—
               (A) in subparagraph (A)—
                   (i) in clause (i)—
                        (I) by striking ‘‘$35,000’’ and in- serting ‘‘$500,000’’; and
                        (II) by striking ‘‘$100,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$500,000’’;
                   (ii) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘$10,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$500,000’’; and
                   (iii) in clause (iii)—
                        (I) by striking ‘‘$50,000’’ and in- serting ‘‘$500,000’’; and
                        (II) by striking ‘‘$150,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$500,000’’;
               (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘$100,000’’ each place that term appears and inserting ‘‘$500,000’’; and
               (C) in subparagraph (C)—
                   (i) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘$100,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$500,000’’; and
                   (ii) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘$100,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$500,000’’;
          (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘$250,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$500,000’’;
          (3) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘$100,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$500,000’’; and
          (4) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘$500,000’’ each place that term appears and inserting ‘‘$1,000,000’’. TITLE III—AGREED VALUE PILOT PROGRAM
 SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE. This title may be cited as the ‘‘Agreed Value Flood Protection Program Act of 2017’’.
 SEC. 302. DEFINITIONS. In this title—
          (1) the term ‘‘agreed value flood protection pol- icy’’ means a flood protection policy providing that, if a flood occurs, the National Flood Insurance Pro- gram will make payments according to agreed sched- ules of payments determined by flood height in cov- ered structures participating in the Program;
          (2) the term ‘‘catastrophic loss year’’ means a year in which the combined ratio is not less than 130 percent;
          (3) the term ‘‘combined ratio’’ means the quotient obtained when the sum obtained by adding the losses paid under the National Flood Insurance Program in a year and the expenses of the National Flood Insurance Program in that year is divided by the total amount of premiums collected under the National Flood Insurance Program in that year;
          (4) the term ‘‘covered agent’’ means any insur- ance agent, producer, or intermediary licensed by a State;
          (5) the term ‘‘covered structure’’ means real property eligible for flood insurance coverage under the National Flood Insurance Program;
          (6) the term ‘‘eligible participant’’ means a per- son that has demonstrated ownership of a covered structure;
          (7) the term ‘‘flood height’’ means the distance between the high water mark and the top of the first floor of a covered structure, as measured or as de- termined by other appropriate methods;
          (8) the term ‘‘Program’’ means the Agreed Value Flood Protection Program established under section 303(a); and
          (9) the term ‘‘Reserve Fund’’ means the Agreed Value Flood Protection Program Reserve Fund es- tablished under section 305(a).
 SEC. 303. AGREED VALUE FLOOD PROTECTION PILOT PRO- GRAM.
     (a) IN G ENERAL .—The Administrator may establish and carry out an optional Agreed Value Flood Protection Pilot Program for the 8-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, under which—
          (1) an eligible participant may purchase an agreed value flood protection policy to protect against losses resulting from physical damage to, or loss of, a covered structure, including any personal property related thereto, owned by the eligible par- ticipant arising from a flood occurring in the United States during the period for which the policy is in force;
          (2) a covered agent may issue an agreed value flood protection policy to an eligible participant; and
          (3) an eligible participant may not be denied the opportunity to purchase an agreed value flood protection policy solely on the basis of the geo- graphic location of the eligible participant.
     (b) E LIGIBILITY.—In order to purchase an agreed value flood protection policy, an eligible participant shall demonstrate that the value of the covered structure to be covered under the policy, including any contents within the covered structure, is not less than the coverage amount of the policy.
     (c) ISSUANCE .—Any covered agent may issue an agreed value flood protection policy to an eligible partici- pant under the Program.
     (d) W RITE Y OUR  OWN .—The laws and regulations governing the Write Your Own Program shall not apply to the Program.
     (e) BROCHURE  .—
          (1) IN  GENERAL  .—The Administrator shall publish a brochure that compares the premium rates charged under the National Flood Insurance Pro- gram with the premium rates charged under the Program.
          (2) COVERED AGENTS  .—
              (A) IN GENERAL  .—A covered agent shall explain to an eligible participant the risks asso- ciated with an agreed value flood protection pol- icy before the eligible participant purchases a policy.
               (B) D ELIVERY .—If a covered agent deliv- ers the brochure published under paragraph (1) to an eligible participant before the eligible par- ticipant purchases an agreed value flood protec- tion policy, the delivery shall constitute prima facie evidence that the covered agent has satis- fied the requirement under subparagraph (A).
      (f) REPORT .—Not later than 1 year after the date on which the Program ends, the Administrator shall sub- mit to Congress a report—
          (1) containing data that was collected during the administration of the Program relating to under- insurance factors, claims statistics, claims disputes (including how such disputes were adjudicated), and actuarial rate reviews; and
          (2) that compares premium rates charged under the Program with comparable premium rates charged under the standard flood insurance policy, controlling for comparable risk factors.
 SEC. 304. USE OF AGREED VALUE FLOOD PROTECTION TO SATISFY REQUIREMENT TO PURCHASE FLOOD INSURANCE TO RECEIVE A MORT- GAGE LOAN. An agreed value flood protection policy shall satisfy the mandatory purchase requirement.
 SEC. 305. AGREED VALUE FLOOD PROTECTION PROGRAM RESERVE FUND.
     (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF AN  A GREED  VALUE  FLOOD PROTECTION  RESERVE  FUND .—In carrying out the Pro- gram, the Administrator shall establish in the Treasury of the United States an Agreed Value Flood Protection Program Reserve Fund, which shall be—
         (1) separate from any other accounts or funds available to the Administrator; and
         (2) available for meeting the expected future obligations of the Program, including—
             (A) the payment of claims during cata- strophic loss years; and
             (B) the repayment of amounts outstanding under any note or other obligation issued by the Administrator under section 1309(a) of the Na- tional Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4016(a)).
     (b) RESERVE  R ATIO.—Subject to the phase-in re- quirements under subsection (d), the Reserve Fund shall maintain a balance that, together with any risk financing covering the Program, is an amount that is equal to—
          (1) 1.5 percent of the sum of the total potential loss exposure of all outstanding agreed value flood protection policies in force during the prior fiscal year; or
          (2) a higher percentage of the sum described in paragraph (1) that the Administrator determines to be appropriate, taking into consideration any cir- cumstance that may raise a significant risk of sub- stantial future losses to the Reserve Fund.
     (c) MAINTENANCE OF   RESERVE  R ATIO.—
          (1) IN GENERAL  .—The Administrator may es- tablish, increase, or decrease the amount of aggre- gate annual policy charges to be collected for any fiscal year that are necessary in order to—
              (A) maintain the amount required under subsection (b); and
              (B) if the balance of the Reserve Fund is an amount that is less than the amount re- quired under subsection (b), obtain the amount required under subsection (b).
          (2) C ONSIDERATIONS .—In exercising the au- thority under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall consider—
               (A) the expected operating expenses of the Reserve Fund;
               (B) the covered loss expenditures under the Program;
               (C) any investment income generated under the Program; and
               (D) any other factor that the Adminis- trator determines appropriate.
          (3) L IMITATION .—Notwithstanding any other provision of law or any agreement entered into by the Administrator, the Administrator shall ensure that all amounts attributable to the establishment or increase of annual policy charges under paragraph
     (1) are transferred to the Administrator for deposit into the Reserve Fund to be available for meeting the expected future obligations of the Program, as described in subsection (a)(2).
     (d) P HASE -IN  REQUIREMENTS   .—The phase-in re- quirements under this subsection are as follows:
          (1) I N GENERAL  .—Beginning in fiscal year 2018, and in each successive fiscal year thereafter until the amount required under subsection (b) is obtained, the Administrator shall deposit in the Re- serve Fund an amount that is not less than 10 per- cent of the amount required under subsection (b).
          (2) A MOUNT SATISFIED  .—Except as provided in paragraph (3), beginning on the date on which the amount required under subsection (b) is ob- tained, the Administrator shall not be required to set aside any amounts for the Reserve Fund.
          (3) E XCEPTION .—If, at any time during any fiscal year after the amount required under sub- section (b) is obtained, the amount in the Reserve Fund is less than the amount required under sub- section (b), the Administrator shall deposit in the Reserve Fund during that fiscal year an amount that is not less than the lesser of—
              (A) the difference between the amount re- quired under subsection (b) and the amount in the Reserve Fund; or
              (B) 10 percent of the amount required under subsection (b).
     (e) LIMITATION ON  R ESERVE  RATIO .—If, in any fis- cal year, the Administrator determines that the amount required under subsection (b) cannot be obtained, the Ad- ministrator shall submit to Congress a report that—
          (1) describes and details the specific concerns of the Administrator regarding the consequences of that amount not being obtained;
         (2) demonstrates how the consequences de- scribed in paragraph (1) would harm the long-term financial soundness of the Program; and
         (3) indicates the maximum attainable amount for that fiscal year.
     (f) INVESTMENT  .—The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest such amounts of the Reserve Fund as the Sec- retary determines advisable in obligations issued or guar- anteed by the United States.
 SEC. 306. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION. Nothing in this title may be construed to—
         (1) limit the National Flood Insurance Pro- gram, including the ability of a person to purchase flood insurance under the National Flood Insurance Program to satisfy the mandatory purchase require- ment; or
         (2) require a person to participate in the Pro- gram. TITLE IV—PROVIDING PRIVATE MARKET ACCESS, ACCOUNT- ABILITY, AND COMPETITION
 SEC. 401. USE OF PRIVATE FLOOD INSURANCE TO SATISFY MANDATORY PURCHASE REQUIREMENT.
     (a) N GENERAL .—
         (1) MANDATORY PURCHASE REQUIREMENT    .—
              (A) A MOUNT AND TERM OF COVERAGE      .— Section 102 of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a) is amended by striking ‘SEC. 102. (A)’’ and all that follows through the end of subsection (a) and inserting the following:
     ‘‘SEC. 102. (a) MOUNT AND   T ERM OF C OVERAGE .—
          ‘‘(1) N GENERAL  .—Subject to paragraph (2), on and after the date that is 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, no Federal officer or agen- cy may approve any financial assistance for acquisi- tion or construction purposes for use in any area that has been identified by the Administrator as an area having special flood hazards and in which the sale of flood insurance has been made available under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), unless the building or mobile home and any personal property to which the finan- cial assistance relates is covered by flood insurance.
          ‘‘(2) MOUNT AND TERM   .—
              ‘‘(A) AMOUNT GENERALLY     .—The amount of flood insurance required under paragraph
          (1)—
                   ‘‘(i) in the case of Federal flood insur- ance, shall be not less than the lesser of—
                         ‘‘(I) 80 percent of the purchase price of the property;
                         ‘‘(II) the development or project cost of the building, mobile home, or personal property (less estimated land cost);
                         ‘‘(III) the maximum limit of Fed- eral flood insurance coverage made available with respect to the particular type of property; or
                         ‘‘(IV) for multi-unit structures only, the outstanding principal bal- ance of the loan; or
                    ‘‘(ii) in the case of private flood insur- ance, shall be not less than the lesser of—
                         ‘‘(I) 80 percent of the purchase price of the property;
                         ‘‘(II) the development or project cost of the building, mobile home, or personal property (less estimated land cost);
                         ‘‘(III) the maximum limit of Fed- eral flood insurance coverage made available with respect to the particular type of property; or
                        ‘‘(IV) for multi-unit structures only, the outstanding principal bal- ance of the loan.
               ‘‘(B) LOANS AND INSURED AND GUARAN      - TEED LOANS   .—If the financial assistance de- scribed in paragraph (1) is in the form of a loan or an insurance or guaranty of a loan, flood insurance need not be required beyond the term of the loan.
               ‘‘(C) T ERM  GENERALLY   .—The require- ment of maintaining flood insurance under paragraph (1) shall apply during the life of the property, regardless of transfer of ownership of the property.’’.
               (B) M ORTGAGE LOANS  .—Section 102(b) of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a(b)) is amended—
                   (i) by striking paragraphs (1) through
               (5) and inserting the following:
          ‘‘(1) REGULATED LENDING INSTITUTIONS     .—
               ‘‘(A) N GENERAL   .—Each Federal entity for lending regulation (after consultation and coordination with the Financial Institutions Ex- amination Council established under section 1004 of the Federal Financial Institutions Ex- amination Council Act of 1974 (12 U.S.C. 3303)) shall by regulation direct regulated lend- ing institutions not to make, increase, extend, or renew any loan secured by improved real es- tate or a mobile home located or to be located in an area that has been identified by the Ad- ministrator as an area having special flood haz- ards and in which flood insurance has been made available under the National Flood Insur- ance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), un- less the building or mobile home and any per- sonal property securing the loan is covered for the term of the loan by flood insurance in an amount described in subparagraph (B).
               ‘‘(B) AMOUNT  .—The amount of flood in- surance required under subparagraph (A)—
                   ‘‘(i) in the case of Federal flood insur- ance, shall be not less than the lesser of—
                        ‘‘(I) 80 percent of the purchase price of the property;
                        ‘‘(II) the maximum limit of Fed- eral flood insurance coverage made available with respect to the particular type of property; or
                        ‘‘(III) for multi-unit structures only, the outstanding principal bal- ance of the loan; or
                   ‘‘(ii) in the case of private flood insur- ance, shall be not less than the lesser of—
                        ‘‘(I) 80 percent of the purchase price of the property;
                        ‘‘(II) the maximum limit of Fed- eral flood insurance coverage made available with respect to the particular type of property; or
                        ‘‘(III) for multi-unit structures only, the outstanding principal bal- ance of the loan.
          ‘‘(2) FEDERAL AGENCY LENDERS     .—
               ‘‘(A) N GENERAL  .—
                   ‘‘(i) INSURANCE REQUIRED    .—A Fed- eral agency lender may not make, increase, extend, or renew any loan secured by im- proved real estate or a mobile home located or to be located in an area that has been identified by the Administrator as an area having special flood hazards and in which flood insurance has been made available under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), unless the building or mobile home and any personal property securing the loan is covered for the term of the loan by flood insurance in accordance with paragraph (1).
                   ‘‘(ii) REGULATIONS  .—
                        ‘‘(I)N GENERAL  .—Each Federal agency lender may issue any regula- tions necessary to carry out this para- graph.
                        ‘‘(II) CONSISTENCY  .—Any regu- lations issued under subclause (I) shall be consistent with and substan- tially identical to any regulations issued under paragraph (1).
               ‘‘(B) REQUIREMENT TO ACCEPT FLOOD IN     - SURANCE  .—Each Federal agency lender shall accept flood insurance as satisfaction of the flood insurance coverage requirement under subparagraph (A)(i) if the flood insurance cov- erage meets the requirements for coverage under that subparagraph.
          ‘‘(3) GOVERNMENT   -SPONSORED   ENTERPRISES FOR HOUSING   .—
               ‘‘(A) I MPLEMENTATION      OF   PROCE   - DURES .—
                   ‘‘(i) R EQUIREMENT  .—The Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation shall implement procedures reasonably de- signed to ensure that, for any loan de- scribed in clause (ii) that is purchased or guaranteed by such entity, the building or mobile home and any personal property se- curing the loan is covered for the term of the loan by flood insurance in the amount provided in paragraph (1)(B).
                   ‘‘(ii) SECURED   LOAN  .—A loan de- scribed in this clause is a loan secured by improved real estate or a mobile home lo- cated in an area—
                        ‘‘(I) that has been identified, at the time of the origination of the loan or at any time during the term of the loan, by the Administrator as an area having special flood hazards; and
                        ‘‘(II) in which flood insurance is made available under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.).
              ‘‘(B) A CCEPTABLE   INSURANCE  .—Subject to subparagraph (C), the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation shall accept flood insurance as satisfaction of the flood insurance coverage requirement under paragraph (1) if the flood insurance coverage provided meets the requirements for coverage under that paragraph and any requirements established by the Fed- eral National Mortgage Association or the Fed- eral Home Loan Corporation, respectively, re- lating to the financial strength of private insur- ance companies from which the Federal Na- tional Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation will accept private flood insurance.
              ‘‘(C) R ELATION TO STATE LAW     .—A re- quirement described in subparagraph (B) may not affect or conflict with any State law, regula- tion, or procedure concerning the regulation of the business of insurance.
          ‘‘(4) APPLICABILITY .—
              ‘‘(A) E XISTING   COVERAGE  .—Except as provided in subparagraph (B), paragraph (1) shall apply on the date of enactment of the Rie- gle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4701 et seq.).
              ‘‘(B) N EW   COVERAGE  .—Paragraphs (2) and (3) shall apply only with respect to any loan made, increased, extended, or renewed after the expiration of the 1-year period begin- ning on the date of enactment of the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Im- provement Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4701 et seq.). Paragraph (1) shall apply with respect to any loan made, increased, extended, or renewed by any lender supervised by the Farm Credit Administration only after the expiration of the period under this subparagraph.
              ‘‘(C) C ONTINUED   EFFECT   OF  REGULA   - TIONS .—Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, the regulations to carry out paragraph (1), as in effect immediately before the date of enactment of the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4701 et seq.), shall con- tinue to apply until the regulations issued to carry out paragraph (1), as amended by section 522(a) of such Act, take effect.
          ‘‘(5) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION    .—
               ‘‘(A) N GENERAL   .—Subject to subpara- graph (B), nothing in this subsection shall be construed to supersede or limit the authority of a Federal entity for lending regulation, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, a Federal agency lender, the Federal National Mortgage Association, or the Federal Home Loan Mort- gage Corporation to establish requirements re- lating to the financial strength of private insur- ance companies from which the entity or agency will accept private flood insurance.
               ‘‘(B) RELATION TO STATE LAW     .—A re- quirement described in subparagraph (A) may not affect or conflict with any State law, regula- tion, or procedure concerning the regulation of the business of insurance.’’; and
                   (ii) by striking paragraph (7) and in- serting the following:
          ‘‘(7) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
               ‘‘(A) FEDERAL FLOOD INSURANCE     .—The term ‘Federal flood insurance’ means an insur- ance policy made available under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.).
               ‘‘(B) FLOOD INSURANCE   .—The term ‘flood insurance’ means—
                   ‘‘(i) Federal flood insurance; and
                   ‘‘(ii) private flood insurance.
               ‘‘(C) PRIVATE FLOOD INSURANCE     .—The term ‘private flood insurance’ means an insur- ance policy that—
                   ‘‘(i) is issued by an insurance com- pany that is—
                        ‘‘(I) licensed, admitted, or other- wise approved to engage in the busi- ness of insurance in the State in which the insured building is located, by the insurance regulator of that State; or
                        ‘‘(II) eligible as a nonadmitted insurer to provide insurance in the home State of the insured, in accord- ance with sections 521 through 527 of the Nonadmitted and Reinsurance Re- form Act of 2010 (15 U.S.C. 8201 through 8206);
                  ‘‘(ii) is issued by an insurance com- pany that is not otherwise disapproved as a surplus lines insurer by the insurance regulator of the State in which the prop- erty to be insured is located; and
                  ‘‘(iii) provides flood insurance cov- erage that complies with the laws and reg- ulations of that State.
              ‘‘(D) TATE .—The term ‘State’ means any State of the United States, the District of Co- lumbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Vir- gin Islands, and American Samoa.’’.
          (2) EFFECT OF PRIVATE FLOOD INSURANCE COVERAGE ON CONTINUOUS COVERAGE REQUIRE         - MENTS .—Section 1308 of the National Flood Insur- ance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4015) is amended by adding at the end the following:
     ‘‘(n) EFFECT OF   PRIVATE F LOOD  NSURANCE   COV - ERAGE ON   CONTINUOUS   C OVERAGE  R EQUIREMENTS  .— For purposes of applying any statutory, regulatory, or ad- ministrative continuous coverage requirement, including under section 1307(g)(1), the Administrator shall consider any period during which a property was continuously cov- ered by private flood insurance to be a period of contin- uous coverage.’’.
     (b) APPLICABILITY OF  EXPANDED   P RIVATE F LOOD INSURANCE  O PTIONS .—The amendments made by sub- section (a) shall apply only with respect to a property that is described in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of section 1307(a)(2) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4014(a)(2)).
     (c) REPORT ON  LEVEL OF  PERCEIVED  ADVERSE  S E- LECTION .—Not later than 2 years after the date of enact- ment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to Con- gress a report on the extent to which, of the properties that are required to satisfy the mandatory purchase re- quirement, the properties for which private flood insurance is purchased tend to be at a lower risk of flooding than the properties for which Federal flood insurance is pur- chased (commonly referred to as ‘‘adverse selection’’), by detailing risk classifications of private flood insurance policies.
 SEC. 402. PROVISION OF PRIVATE FLOOD INSURANCE BY WRITE YOUR OWN COMPANIES. The Administrator—
          (1) on and after October 1 of the first fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this Act, may not prohibit a Write Your Own company from offering or selling private flood insurance out- side of the Write Your Own Program; and
          (2) shall amend article XIII of the WYO Com- pany Financial Assistance/Subsidy Arrangement in accordance with paragraph (1).
 SEC. 403. AVAILABILITY OF NFIP CLAIMS DATA.
     (a) IN  GENERAL .—The Administrator shall make available to a private insurance company that complies with subsection (b) anonymized data regarding claims under the National Flood Insurance Program, and any re- lated information that the Administrator determines ap- propriate, to enable the company to improve its under- standing of flood risk in the United States.
     (b) PRIVATE  F LOOD  INSURANCE   CLAIMS  DATA .— The Administrator may provide data and related informa- tion to a private insurance company under subsection (a) if the company agrees to make available to the public, free of charge, its own anonymized data regarding private flood insurance claims.
 SEC. 404. FEES AND SURCHARGES FOR PRIVATE FLOOD IN- SURANCE POLICIES.
     (a) SURCHARGES  .—Section 1308A(a) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4015a(a)) is amended—
          (1) by striking ‘‘The Administrator’’ and insert- ing the following:
          ‘‘(1) COLLECTION ON NFIP POLICIES   .—The Ad- ministrator’’; and
          (2) by adding at the end the following:
          ‘‘(2) COLLECTION ON PRIVATE POLICIES   .—
               ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL  .—An insurance com- pany that issues a policy for private flood insur- ance shall impose and collect an annual sur- charge, in the amount provided in subsection
          (b), on a private flood insurance policy.
               ‘‘(B) N ADDITION TO INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE SURCHARGE     .—The surcharge im- posed under subparagraph (A) shall be in addi- tion to the surcharge imposed under section 1304(c) and any other assessments and sur- charges applied to such coverage.
               ‘‘(C) SURCHARGE PAYABLE TO ADMINIS      - TRATOR .—Any surcharge imposed and collected under subparagraph (A) shall be payable to the Administrator.
               ‘‘(D) INFORMATION  .—The Administrator may require the provision of such information as the Administrator decides is necessary to verify that a surcharge imposed and collected under subparagraph (A) has been imposed and collected at the proper time and in the proper amount.
              ‘‘(E) COST OF COLLECTING SURCHARGE    .— No portion of the surcharge collected under subparagraph (A) may be retained by the insur- ance company for the costs of collecting, han- dling, or remitting the surcharge except for in- terest accruing to the company after collection and before remittance.’’.
     (b) FEDERAL   POLICY F EE .—Section 1307(a) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4014(a)) is amended—
          (1) in paragraph (1)(B)(iii), by striking ‘‘shall be recovered by’’ and all that follows and inserting ‘‘shall be recovered—
                       ‘‘(I) in the case of a policy under the national flood insurance program, by a fee that—
                            ‘‘(aa) shall be charged to policyholders; and
                            ‘‘(bb) shall not be subject to any agents’ commissions, com- pany expense allowances, or State or local premium taxes; and
                        ‘‘(II) in the case of a private flood insurance policy, by a fee—
                            ‘‘(aa) that shall be—
                                 ‘‘(AA) charged to pol- icyholders;
                                 ‘‘(BB) collected by the insurance company that issued the policy; and
                                 ‘‘(CC) payable to the Administrator;
                            ‘‘(bb) that shall not be sub- ject to any agents’ commissions, company expense allowances, or State or local premium taxes; and
                            ‘‘(cc) with respect to which—
                                 ‘‘(AA) the Adminis- trator may require the provi- sion of such information as the Administrator decides is necessary to verify that the fee has been imposed and collected at the proper time and in the proper amount; and
                                ‘‘(BB) no portion may be retained by the insurance company that collected the fee for the costs of col- lecting, handling, or remit- ting the fee except for inter- est accruing to the company after collection and before remittance; and’’; and
          (2) in paragraph (2), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘, including a fee charged to policyholders of private flood insurance in a manner that is consistent with paragraph
     (1)(B)(iii)(II),’’ after ‘‘policyholders’’.
     (c) INCREASED   COST OF  C OMPLIANCE  S URCHARGE FOR  PRIVATE  POLICIES .—Section 1304 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4011), as amend- ed by section 203(b) of this Act, is further amended—
          (1) in subsection (b), by striking the flush text following paragraph (2), as so designated;
          (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as sub- section (d); and
          (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the fol- lowing:
     ‘‘(c) IMPOSITION   AND    COLLECTION   OF    SUR - CHARGE .—
          ‘‘(1) NFIP POLICIES.—The Administrator shall impose a surcharge on each insured under the na- tional flood insurance program of not more than $75 per policy to provide cost of compliance coverage in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b).
          ‘‘(2) PRIVATE POLICIES .—
              ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL   .—An insurance com- pany that issues a policy for private flood insur- ance shall impose a surcharge on each insured of not more than $75 per policy to provide cost of compliance coverage in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b).
              ‘‘(B) SURCHARGE PAYABLE TO ADMINIS      - TRATOR .—Any surcharge imposed under sub- paragraph (A) shall be payable to the Adminis- trator.
              ‘‘(C) INFORMATION  .—The Administrator may require the provision of such information as the Administrator decides is necessary to verify that a surcharge imposed under subpara- graph (A) has been imposed at the proper time and in the proper amount.
              ‘‘(D) COST OF COLLECTING SURCHARGE    .— No portion of the surcharge imposed under sub- paragraph (A) may be retained by the insur- ance company for the costs of collecting, han- dling, or remitting the surcharge except for in- terest accruing to the company after collection and before remittance.’’.
     (d) APPLICABILITY .—The amendments made by sub- sections (a), (b), and (c) shall apply with respect to a pri- vate flood insurance policy that is newly issued or renewed after the date of enactment of this Act.
     (e) D EFINITION OF  PRIVATE  F LOOD  NSURANCE  .— Section 1370(a) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4121(a)) is amended—
          (1) in paragraph (14), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
          (2) in paragraph (15), by striking the period at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
          (3) by adding at the end the following:
          ‘‘(16) the term ‘private flood insurance’ has the meaning given the term in section 102(b) of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a(b)).’’.
     (f) TECHNICAL AND    CONFORMING    AMENDMENT   .— Section 1308A(a)(1) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4015a(a)(1)), as so designated by sub- section (a)(1) of this section, is amended, in the second sentence, by striking ‘‘section 1304(b)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 1304(c)’’.
 SEC. 405. PILOT PROGRAM. Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall establish a 5-year pilot program—
          (1) that involves risk sharing under the Na- tional Flood Insurance Program; and
          (2) under which—
              (A) the Administrator shall determine which structures shall be covered under the pilot program;
              (B) Write Your Own companies, or other- wise qualified insurance companies, shall as- sume a first-loss position with respect to claims that are not greater than $50,000 for struc- tures covered under the pilot program; and
              (C) the National Flood Insurance Program shall assume a secondary loss position with re- spect to all structures covered under the pilot program.  TITLE V—MODERNIZING FLOOD MAPPING AND FLOOD RISK ACCURACY
 SEC. 501. REAUTHORIZATION OF NATIONAL FLOOD MAP- PING PROGRAM. Section 100216(f) of the Biggert-Waters Flood In- surance Reform Act of 2012 (42 U.S.C. 4101b(f)) is amended—
         (1) by striking ‘‘to carry out this section $400,000,000’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘to carry out this section—
         ‘‘(1) $400,000,000’’; and
         (2) by striking the period at the end and insert- ing the following: ‘‘; and
         ‘‘(2) $500,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2027.’’.
 SEC. 502. MAPPING STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES FOR NONGOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES. Section 100215(c)(2) of the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012 (42 U.S.C. 4101a(c)(2)) is amended, in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting after ‘‘to the Administrator’’ the following: ‘‘, and to non-government entities to help communities provide more accurate technical data to the Adminis- trator,’’.
 SEC. 503. USE OF HIGH-RESOLUTION MAPPING TECH- NOLOGY.
     (a) I N  G ENERAL .—Section 100216(b)(1) of the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012 (42 U.S.C. 4101b(b)(1)) is amended—
          (1) in subparagraph (A)(i), by inserting ‘‘sub- ject to subparagraph (D),’’ before ‘‘all populated areas’’;
          (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
          (3) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end and inserting the following: ‘‘, including by facilitating, partnering with other Federal, State, and local agencies with respect to, and leveraging the efficient acquisition of the most up-to-date high- resolution topographic data, such as Light Detection and Ranging (commonly known as ‘LiDAR’) data and other new and emerging technologies; and’’; and
          (4) by adding at the end the following:
               ‘‘(D) transition from identifying the 100- year floodplain and associated base flood ele- vation as the basis for insurance rating pur- poses to determining structure-specific flood frequencies and associated flood elevations, in- cluding by using the most up-to-date high-reso- lution topographic data as required under sub- paragraph (C), in order to reduce flood risk and improve the accuracy of National Flood Insur- ance Program rate maps.’’.
      (b) REPORT .—Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report on compliance by the Administrator with the requirement under subparagraphs (C) and (D) of section 100216(b)(1) of the Biggert-Waters Flood In- surance Reform Act of 2012 (42 U.S.C. 4101b(b)(1)), as amended by subsection (a), to use the most up-to-date high-resolution topographic data on a structure-specific basis in order to reduce flood risk and improve the accu- racy of National Flood Insurance Program rate maps.
 SEC. 504. PROTECTED AREAS. Section 100216(b) of the Biggert-Waters Flood In- surance Reform Act of 2012 (42 U.S.C. 4101b(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
          ‘‘(4) PROTECTED AREAS    .—The Administrator shall replace the Zone D designation, in areas pro- tected by flood control structures or non-structural flood mitigation features, with risk zones that are more appropriate for the level of protection provided by the structure or feature.’’.
 SEC. 505. COASTAL FLOOD MODELS. Section 100216(b) of the Biggert-Waters Flood In- surance Reform Act of 2012 (42 U.S.C. 4101b(b)), as amended by section 504, is amended by adding at the end the following:
         ‘‘(5) COASTAL FLOOD MODELS   .—In updating maps under this section, the Administrator shall use the most current coastal flood models available to ensure technically and scientifically accurate mod- eling that better represents and communicates flood risk.’’. TITLE VI—ENHANCING NA- TIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY
 SEC. 601. DEADLINE FOR APPROVAL OF CLAIMS.
     (a) N  GENERAL .—Section 1312 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4019) is amended by adding at the end the following:
     ‘‘(d)DEADLINE FOR  APPROVAL OF C LAIMS.—
         ‘‘(1) N GENERAL  .—The Administrator shall provide that, in the case of a claim for damage to or loss of property covered by flood insurance made available under this title—
               ‘‘(A) except as provided in paragraph (2), not later than 30 days after the date on which the claim is made—
                   ‘‘(i) a final determination regarding approval of the claim for payment or dis- approval of the claim shall be made; and
                   ‘‘(ii) notification of the determination shall be provided to the insured making the claim; and
               ‘‘(B) payment of an approved claim shall be made as soon as possible after such ap- proval.
          ‘‘(2) EXTENSION OF DEADLINE   .—The Adminis- trator—
               ‘‘(A) shall provide that the period de- scribed in paragraph (1)(A) may be extended by a single additional period of 15 days under ex- traordinary circumstances; and
               ‘‘(B) shall, by regulation, establish criteria for—
                   ‘‘(i) demonstrating such extraordinary circumstances; and
                   ‘‘(ii) determining to which claims such extraordinary circumstances apply.’’.
     (b) APPLICABILITY .—The amendment made by sub- section (a) shall apply to any claim for damage to or loss of property covered by flood insurance made available under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.) that is pending on, or made after, the date of enactment of this Act.
 SEC. 602. FLOOD INSURANCE TRANSPARENCY, ACCOUNT- ABILITY, AND REFORM.
     (a) R EPORTS AND   O THER  CLAIM -RELATED   DOCU - MENTS .—Section 1312 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4019), as amended by section 601, is amended by adding at the end the following:
     ‘‘(e) FINAL  ENGINEERING   REPORTS .—The Adminis- trator shall require that, in the case of any on-site inspec- tion of a property by an engineer for the purpose of assess- ing any claim for losses covered by a policy for flood insur- ance coverage provided under this title (referred to in this subsection as a ‘covered claim’), the final engineering re- port shall be provided to the insured under the policy, as follows:
          ‘‘(1) TIMING.—The final engineering report may not be transmitted to any other person, em- ployer, agency, or entity, before it is transmitted to the insured.
          ‘‘(2) PROHIBITION ON ALTERATIONS    ; CERTIFI - CATION .—The final engineering report may not in- clude alterations by, or at the request of, anyone other than the responsible in charge for the report and shall include a certification, signed by the re- sponsible in charge for the report, that it does not contain any such alterations.
          ‘‘(3) TRANSMITTAL  .—The final engineering re- port shall be transmitted to the insured in a manner prescribed by the Administrator that provides rea- sonable assurance that it was transmitted directly to the insured by the responsible in charge.
          ‘‘(4) REPORTS COVERED   .—For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘final engineering report’ means an engineering report, survey, or other document in connection with the covered claim that—
               ‘‘(A) is based on the on-site inspection;
               ‘‘(B) contains final conclusions with re- spect to an engineering issue or issues involved in the claim; and
               ‘‘(C) is signed by the responsible in charge or affixed with the seal of the responsible in charge, or both.
      ‘‘(f)CLAIMS  ADJUSTMENT    REPORTS  .—The Adminis- trator shall require that, in the case of any on-site inspec- tion of a property by a claims adjustor for the purpose of assessing any claim for losses covered by a policy for flood insurance coverage provided under this title (referred to in this subsection as a ‘covered claim’), any report shall be provided to the insured under the policy, as follows:
           ‘‘(1) TIMING.—The report may not be trans- mitted to any other person, employer, agency, or en- tity, before it is transmitted to the insured.
           ‘‘(2) PROHIBITION ON ALTERATIONS      ; CERTIFI- CATION .—The report may not include alterations by, or at the request of, anyone other than the preparer of the report and shall include a certification, signed by the preparer, that it does not contain any such alterations.
           ‘‘(3) TRANSMITTAL   .—The report shall be trans- mitted to the insured in a manner prescribed by the Administrator that provides reasonable assurance that it was transmitted directly to the insured by the preparer.
           ‘‘(4) REPORTS COVERED    .—For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘report’—
               ‘‘(A) means any report or document in connection with the covered claim that is based on the on-site inspection by the claims adjustor, including any adjustment report and field re- port;
               ‘‘(B) includes any draft, preliminary version, or copy of a report described in sub- paragraph (A) and any amendments or addi- tions to any such report; and
               ‘‘(C) does not include a final engineering report, as that term is defined for purposes of subsection (e).
     ‘‘(g) OTHER C LAIM RELATED   DOCUMENTS   .—
          ‘‘(1) DEFINITION OF CLAIM    -RELATED DOCU   - MENT  .—In this subsection, the term ‘claim-related document’ means any document, other than a final engineering report (as defined in subsection (e)) or a report (as defined in subsection (f)), that was pre- pared for the purposes of assessing a claim for losses covered by flood insurance made available under this title, including—
               ‘‘(A) a repair and replacement estimate or bid;
               ‘‘(B) an appraisal;
               ‘‘(C) a scope of loss;
               ‘‘(D) a drawing;
               ‘‘(E) a plan;
               ‘‘(F) a report, including a draft report pre- pared based on an on-site inspection of a prop- erty conducted by a claims adjustor or engineer;
               ‘‘(G) a third-party finding on the amount of loss, amount of covered damage, or cost of repairs; and
               ‘‘(H) any other valuation, measurement, or loss adjustment calculation of the amount of loss, amount of covered damage, or cost of re- pairs.
          ‘‘(2) AVAILABILITY OF DOCUMENTS    .—Any enti- ty servicing a claim under the national flood insur- ance program—
               ‘‘(A) shall retain each claim-related docu- ment prepared by or for the entity;
               ‘‘(B) upon request by a claimant or an au- thorized representative of a claimant, shall pro- vide to the claimant or representative a copy of any claim-related document described in sub- paragraph (A) that pertains to the claimant; and
               ‘‘(C) not later than 30 days after receiving notice of a claim, shall notify the claimant that the claimant or an authorized representative of the claimant may obtain, upon request, a copy of any claim-related document described in sub- paragraph (A) that pertains to the claimant.’’.
     (b) JUDICIAL R EVIEW .—
          (1) G OVERNMENT PROGRAM WITH INDUSTRY ASSISTANCE  .—Section 1341 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4072) is amended by striking ‘SEC. 134.’’ and all that follows and in- serting the following:
     ‘‘SEC. 1341. (a) A DJUSTMENT AND     P AYMENT OF CLAIMS .—If the program is carried out as provided in sec- tion 1340, the Administrator may adjust and make pay- ment of any claims for proved and approved losses covered by flood insurance.
     ‘‘(b) JUDICIAL R EVIEW .—Upon the disallowance by the Administrator of a claim described in subsection (a), or upon the refusal of the claimant to accept the amount allowed upon a claim described in subsection (a)—
          ‘‘(1) the claimant may institute an action against the Administrator on the claim in the United States district court for the district in which the in- sured property or the major part thereof shall have been situated—
              ‘‘(A) not later than 2 years after the date of the occurrence of the losses involved in the claim; or
               ‘‘(B) in the case of a denial of a claim for losses that is appealed to the Administrator, not later than the later of—
                    ‘‘(i) 90 days after the date of a final determination upon appeal denying the claim in whole or in part; or
                    ‘‘(ii) 2 years after the date of the oc- currence of the losses involved in the claim; and
          ‘‘(2) a court described in paragraph (1) shall have original exclusive jurisdiction to hear and deter- mine the action without regard to the amount in controversy.
      ‘‘(c) PRIVATE  RIGHTS OF   ACTION .—Nothing in this section, or in any regulation or policy implementing the national flood insurance program, shall be construed to preclude a private right of action under any Federal stat- ute by a policyholder against a private entity for fraud arising from the handing or disposition of a claim for losses under this title.’’.
          (2) INDUSTRY PROGRAM WITH FEDERAL FINAN       - CIAL ASSISTANCE  .—Section 1333 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4053) is amended by striking ‘‘SEC . 1333.’’ and all that fol- lows and inserting the following:
     ‘‘SEC. 1333. (a) A  DJUSTMENT AND     PAYMENT OF CLAIMS .—The insurance companies and other insurers that form, associate, or otherwise join together in the pool under this part may adjust and pay all claims for proved and approved losses covered by flood insurance in accord- ance with the provisions of this title.
     ‘‘(b) JUDICIAL R EVIEW .—Upon the disallowance by any company or other insurer described in subsection (a) of a claim described in that subsection, or upon the refusal of the claimant to accept the amount allowed upon a claim described in that subsection—
          ‘‘(1) the claimant may institute an action on the claim against the company or other insurer in the United States district court for the district in which the insured property or the major part thereof shall have been situated—
               ‘‘(A) not later than 2 years after the date of the occurrence of the losses involved in the claim; or
               ‘‘(B) in the case of a denial of a claim for losses that is appealed to the Administrator, not later than the later of—
                   ‘‘(i) 90 days after the date of a final determination upon appeal denying the claim in whole or in part; or
                   ‘‘(ii) 2 years after the date of the oc- currence of the losses involved in the claim; and
          ‘‘(2) a court described in paragraph (1) shall have original exclusive jurisdiction to hear and deter- mine the action without regard to the amount in controversy.’’.
     (c) FLOOD  INSURANCE  A DVOCATE .—Section 24(b) of the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014 (42 U.S.C. 4033(b)) is amended—
          (1) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
          (2) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
          (3) by adding at the end the following:
          ‘‘(6) provide a direct point of contact for policy- holders under the National Flood Insurance Pro- gram to discuss the status of their claim appeals and the basis of the decision to initially deny their claims.’’.
     (d) R ECORDS AND   R EVIEWS .—Section 1348 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4084) is amended by adding at the end the following:
     ‘‘(c) ANNUAL   R EVIEW .—The Administrator shall conduct an annual review of each private entity partici- pating in the national flood insurance program, including any company that has entered into a contract with a Write Your Own company to provide any service related to a pol- icy or claim under the national flood insurance program, including adjusting, engineering, and legal services, to en- sure compliance with this title and with all policies and procedures established by the Administrator to prevent fraud and protect policyholders.’’.
     (e) P UBLICATION OF   CLAIMS  D ATA.—Section 1312 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4019), as amended by subsection (a), is amended by add- ing at the end the following:
     ‘‘(h) P UBLICATION OF    CLAIMS  D ATA .—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the Flood In- surance Affordability and Sustainability Act of 2017, the Administrator shall create and maintain a publically searchable online database that includes, with respect to claims filed under the national flood insurance program after that date of enactment—
          ‘‘(1) the number of claims filed each month, broken down by State;
          ‘‘(2) the number of claims paid in part or in full;
          ‘‘(3) the number of claims denied and the rea- sons cited for each denial; and
         ‘‘(4) the number of claim denials appealed, the number of claim denials upheld on appeal, and the number of claim denials overturned on appeal.’’.
     (f) ENGINEERING AND  L ITIGATION COSTS .—Section 1311 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4018) is amended by adding at the end the fol- lowing:
     ‘‘(c) ENGINEERING AND    LITIGATION  COSTS .—The Administrator shall—
         ‘‘(1) in order to ensure that taxpayer funds are being appropriately expended, establish clear guide- lines and standards to require that any engineering or litigation cost billed to the national flood insur- ance program by a Write Your Own company is jus- tified on a case-by-case basis, both by the entity that originally incurs the cost and by the Write Your Own company; and
         ‘‘(2) enforce compliance with the guidelines and standards established under paragraph (1).’’.
     (g) EARTH  M OVEMENT  .—Section 1306 of the Na- tional Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4013) is amended by adding at the end the following:
     ‘‘(e) EARTH  M OVEMENT  .—A flood insurance claim filed under this title for damage to or loss of property may not be denied based on the earth movement exclusion in the Standard Flood Insurance Policy if the claim is filed as the result of a flood, including a claim for damage to or loss or property caused by earth movement that was caused by a flood.’’.
     (h) A PPEALS  P ROCESS .—Section 205 of the Bun- ning-Bereuter-Blumenauer Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2004 (42 U.S.C. 4011 note) is amended—
          (1) by striking ‘‘Not later than’’ and inserting
     ‘‘(a) N G ENERAL .—Not later than’’; and
          (2) by adding at the end the following:
     ‘‘(b) REVIEW OF  A PPEALS .—
          ‘‘(1) CLARITY .—The Director shall ensure that the appeals process established under subsection (a) has clear rules, forms, and deadlines.
          ‘‘(2) NOTIFICATION UPON INITIAL DENIAL OF CLAIM .—The Director shall ensure that a claimant is provided with the rules, forms, and deadlines de- scribed in paragraph (1) at the time a claim is first denied in full or in part, including—
              ‘‘(A) the effective date of the denial;
              ‘‘(B) a justification for the denial, includ- ing supporting documentation;
              ‘‘(C) the date on which the period of limi- tation for instituting an action against the Ad- ministrator on the claim under section 1341 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4072) will end; and
              ‘‘(D) a point of contact through which the claimant can directly discuss an appeal with a representative of the Federal Emergency Man- agement Agency.
          ‘‘(3) NOTIFICATION  UPON  DENIAL  OF   AP  - PEAL .—If the Administrator denies an appeal filed by a policyholder, the Administrator shall include with the notice of denial an explanation of the pol- icyholder’s legal options for further challenging the denial.’’.
     (i) DEFINITION OF W RITE  YOUR  OWN  COMPANY  .— Section 1370(a) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4121(a)), as amended by section 404(d) of this Act, is further amended—
          (1) in paragraph (15), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
          (2) in paragraph (16), by striking the period at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
          (3) by adding at the end the following:
          ‘‘(17) the term ‘Write Your Own company’ means a company participating in the cooperative undertaking between the insurance industry and the Federal Insurance and Mitigation Administration that allows participating property and casualty in- surance companies to write and service standard flood insurance policies.’’.
 SEC. 603. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
     (a) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term ‘‘Task Force’’ means the National Flood Insurance Program Transformation Task Force established by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
     (b) REPORT TO CONGRESS ON  A CCOUNTABILITY FOR DEFRAUDING  P OLICYHOLDERS .—Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to Congress a report on specific actions the Department of Homeland Security will take to identify individuals and private entities that have engaged in activities to defraud policyholders under the National Flood Insurance Program following Superstorm Sandy and prevent those individuals and private entities from continuing to receive Federal funding through—
         (1) contracts with, or employment by, a Write Your Own company; or
         (2) employment by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
     (c) REPORT TO  CONGRESS ON   RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE  NFIP T  RANSFORMATION    TASK  FORCE .—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report that describes—
          (1) the recommendations of the Task Force for reforming the National Flood Insurance Program;
          (2) a timeline for implementing the rec- ommendations of the Task Force; and
          (3) any recommendations of the Task Force that require additional legislation.
