   In the Senate of the United States,
                                      December 17, 2015.
     Resolved, That the bill from the House of Representa-
tives (H.R. 515) entitled ‘‘An Act to protect children from ex-
ploitation, especially sex trafficking in tourism, by providing
advance notice of intended travel by registered child-sex of-
fenders outside the United States to the government of the
country of destination, requesting foreign governments to no-
tify the United States when a known child-sex offender is
seeking to enter the United States, and for other purposes.’’,
do pass with the following

               AMENDMENTS:
        Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert:
 SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.
     (a) S HORT  T ITLE.—This Act may be cited as the
‘‘International Megan’s Law to Prevent Child Exploitation
and Other Sexual Crimes Through Advanced Notification
of Traveling Sex Offenders’’.
     (b) TABLE OF   CONTENTS .—The table of contents for
this Act is as follows:
                                2
    Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
    Sec. 2. Findings.
    Sec. 3. Definitions.
    Sec. 4. Angel Watch Center.
    Sec. 5. Notification by the United States Marshals Service.
    Sec. 6. International travel.
    Sec. 7. Reciprocal notifications.
    Sec. 8. Unique passport identifiers for covered sex offenders.
    Sec. 9. Implementation plan.
    Sec. 11. Authorization of appropriations.
    Sec. 12. Rule of construction.
 SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
      Congress finds the following:
            (1) Megan Nicole Kanka, who was 7 years old,
      was abducted, sexually assaulted, and murdered in
      1994, in the State of New Jersey by a violent pred-
      ator living across the street from her home. Unbe-
      knownst to Megan Kanka and her family, he had been
      convicted previously of a sex offense against a child.
            (2) In 1996, Congress adopted Megan’s Law
      (Public Law 104–145) as a means to encourage
      States to protect children by identifying the where-
      abouts of sex offenders and providing the means to
      monitor their activities.
            (3) In 2006, Congress passed the Adam Walsh
      Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law
      109–248) to protect children and the public at large
      by establishing a comprehensive national system for
      the registration and notification to the public and
      law enforcement officers of convicted sex offenders.

          (4) Law enforcement reports indicate that known
      child-sex offenders are traveling internationally.
          (5) The commercial sexual exploitation of minors
      in child sex trafficking and pornography is a global
      phenomenon. The International Labour Organization
      has estimated that 1,8000,000 children worldwide are
      victims of child sex trafficking and pornography each
      year.
          (6) Child sex tourism, where an individual trav-
      els to a foreign country and engages in sexual activity
      with a child in that country, is a form of child ex-
      ploitation and, where commercial, child sex traf-
      ficking.
 SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
      In this Act:
          (1) C ENTER .—The term ‘‘Center’’ means the
      Angel Watch Center established pursuant to section
      4(a).
          (2) C ONVICTED .—The term ‘‘convicted’’ has the
      meaning given the term in section 111 of the Adam
      Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (42
      U.S.C. 16911).
          (3) COVERED SEX OFFENDER    .—Except as other-
      wise provided, the term ‘‘covered sex offender’’ means


     an individual who is a sex offender by reason of hav-
     ing been convicted of a sex offense against a minor.
          (4) DESTINATION COUNTRY  .—The term ‘‘destina-
     tion country’’ means a destination or transit country.
          (5) INTERPOL .—The term ‘‘INTERPOL’’ means
     the International Criminal Police Organization.
          (6) J URISDICTION .—The term ‘‘jurisdiction’’
     means—
               (A) a State;
               (B) the District of Columbia;
               (C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
               (D) Guam;
               (E) American Samoa;
               (F) the Northern Mariana Islands;
               (G) the United States Virgin Islands; and
               (H) to the extent provided in, and subject to
          the requirements of, section 127 of the Adam
          Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006
          (42 U.S.C. 16927), a Federally recognized In-
          dian tribe.
          (7) M INOR.—The term ‘‘minor’’ means an indi-
     vidual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
          (8) N ATIONAL SEX OFFENDER REGISTRY     .—The
     term ‘‘National Sex Offender Registry’’ means the Na-
     tional Sex Offender Registry established by section

     119 of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety
     Act of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 16919).
          (9) SEX OFFENDER UNDER SORNA      .—The term
     ‘‘sex offender under SORNA’’ has the meaning given
     the term ‘‘sex offender’’ in section 111 of the Adam
     Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (42
     U.S.C. 16911).
          (10) SEX OFFENSE AGAINST A MINOR  .—
               (A) IN GENERAL  .—The term ‘‘sex offense
          against a minor’’ means a specified offense
          against a minor, as defined in section 111 of the
          Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of
          2006 (42 U.S.C. 16911).
               (B) OTHER OFFENSES   .—The term ‘‘sex of-
          fense against a minor’’ includes a sex offense de-
          scribed in section 111(5)(A) of the Adam Walsh
          Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (42
          U.S.C. 16911(5)(A)) that is a specified offense
          against a minor, as defined in paragraph (7) of
          such section, or an attempt or conspiracy to
          commit such an offense.
               (C) FOREIGN CONVICTIONS   ;OFFENSES IN  -
          VOLVING CONSENSUAL SEXUAL CONDUCT       .—The
          limitations contained in subparagraphs (B) and
          (C) of section 111(5) of the Adam Walsh Child

          Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (42 U.S.C.
          16911(5)) shall apply with respect to a sex of-
          fense against a minor for purposes of this Act to
          the same extent and in the same manner as such
          limitations apply with respect to a sex offense
          for purposes of the Adam Walsh Child Protection
          and Safety Act of 2006.
 SEC. 4. ANGEL WATCH CENTER.
      (a) ESTABLISHMENT  .—Not later than 90 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Home-
land Security shall establish within the Child Exploitation
Investigations Unit of U.S. Immigrations and Customs En-
forcement a Center, to be known as the ‘‘Angel Watch Cen-
ter’’, to carry out the activities specified in subsection (e).
      (b) NCOMING  NOTIFICATION .—
          (1) IN GENERAL  .—The Center may receive in-
      coming notifications concerning individuals seeking
      to enter the United States who have committed of-
      fenses of a sexual nature.
          (2) NOTIFICATION .—Upon receiving an incoming
      notification under paragraph (1), the Center shall—
               (A) immediately share all information re-
          ceived relating to the individual with the De-
          partment of Justice; and


               (B) share all relevant information relating
          to the individual with other Federal, State, and
          local agencies and entities, as appropriate.
          (3) C OLLABORATION  .—The Secretary of Home-
      land Security shall collaborate with the Attorney
      General to establish a process for the receipt, dissemi-
      nation, and categorization of information relating to
      individuals and specific offenses provided herein.
      (c) EADERSHIP  .—The Center shall be headed by the
Assistant Secretary of U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement, in collaboration with the Commissioner of U.S.
Customs and Border Protection and in consultation with
the Attorney General and the Secretary of State.
      (d) MEMBERS  .—The Center shall consist of the fol-
lowing:
          (1) The Assistant Secretary of U.S. Immigration
      and Customs Enforcement.
          (2) The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Bor-
      der Protection.
          (3) Individuals who are designated as analysts
      in U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement or
      U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
          (4) Individuals who are designated as program
      managers in U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforce-
      ment or U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

      (e) CTIVITIES.—
          (1) IN GENERAL  .—In carrying out this section,
      the Center shall, using all relevant databases, systems
      and sources of information, not later than 48 hours
      before scheduled departure, or as soon as practicable
      before scheduled departure—
               (A) determine if individuals traveling
          abroad are listed on the National Sex Offender
          Registry;
               (B) review the United States Marshals
          Service’s National Sex Offender Targeting Center
          case management system or other system that
          provides access to a list of individuals who have
          provided advanced notice of international travel
          to identify any individual who meets the criteria
          described in subparagraph (A) and is not in a
          system reviewed pursuant to this subparagraph;
          and
               (C) provide a list of individuals identified
          under subparagraph (B) to the United States
          Marshals Service’s National Sex Offender Tar-
          geting Center to determine compliance with title
          I of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safe-
          ty Act of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 16901 et seq.).


          (2) PROVISION OF INFORMATION TO CENTER     .—
     Twenty-four hours before the intended travel, or there-
     after, not later than 72 hours after the intended trav-
     el, the United States Marshals Service’s National Sex
     Offender Targeting Center shall provide, to the Angel
     Watch Center, information pertaining to any sex of-
     fender described in subparagraph (C) of paragraph
     (1).
          (3) A DVANCE NOTICE TO DESTINATION COUN      -
     TRY .—
               (A) IN GENERAL  .—The Center may trans-
          mit relevant information to the destination coun-
          try about a sex offender if—
                   (i) the individual is identified by a re-
               view conducted under paragraph (1)(B) as
               having provided advanced notice of inter-
               national travel; or
                   (ii) after completing the activities de-
               scribed in paragraph (1), the Center re-
               ceives information pertaining to a sex of-
               fender under paragraph (2).
               (B) EXCEPTIONS .—The Center may imme-
          diately transmit relevant information on a sex
          offender to the destination country if—


                   (i) the Center becomes aware that a sex
               offender is traveling outside of the United
               States within 24 hours of intended travel,
               and simultaneously completes the activities
               described in paragraph (1); or
                   (ii) the Center has not received a
               transmission pursuant to paragraph (2),
               provided it is not more than 24 hours before
               the intended travel.
               (C) C ORRECTIONS .—Upon receiving infor-
          mation that a notification sent by the Center re-
          garding an individual was inaccurate, the Cen-
          ter shall immediately—
                   (i) send a notification of correction to
               the destination country notified;
                   (ii) correct all data collected pursuant
               to paragraph (6); and
                   (iii) if applicable, notify the Secretary
               of State for purposes of the passport review
               and marking processes described in section
               240 of Public Law 110–457.
               (D) F ORM .—The notification under this
          paragraph may be transmitted through such
          means as are determined appropriate by the


          Center, including through U.S. Immigration and
          Customs Enforcement attaches.
          (4) M EMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT      .—Not later
     than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act,
     the Secretary of Homeland Security shall enter into
     a Memorandum of Agreement with the Attorney Gen-
     eral to facilitate the activities of the Angel Watch
     Center in collaboration with the United States Mar-
     shals Service’s National Sex Offender Targeting Cen-
     ter, including the exchange of information, the shar-
     ing of personnel, access to information and databases
     in accordance with paragraph (1)(B), and the estab-
     lishment of a process to share notifications from the
     international community in accordance with sub-
     section (b)(1).
          (5) PASSPORT APPLICATION REVIEW  .—
               (A) N GENERAL  .—The Center shall provide
          a written determination to the Department of
          State regarding the status of an individual as a
          covered sex offender (as defined in section 240 of
          Public Law 110–457) when appropriate.
               (B) E FFECTIVE DATE .—Subparagraph (A)
          shall take effect upon certification by the Sec-
          retary of State, the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
          rity, and the Attorney General that the process

          developed and reported to the appropriate con-
          gressional committees under section 9 has been
          successfully implemented.
          (6) COLLECTION OF DATA  .—The Center shall col-
      lect all relevant data, including—
               (A) a record of each notification sent under
          paragraph (3);
               (B) the response of the destination country
          to notifications under paragraph (3), where
          available;
               (C) any decision not to transmit a notifica-
          tion abroad, to the extent practicable;
               (D) the number of transmissions made
          under subparagraphs (A),(B), and (C) of para-
          graph (3) and the countries to which they are
          transmitted, respectively;
               (E) whether the information was trans-
          mitted to the destination country before sched-
          uled commencement of sex offender travel; and
               (F) any other information deemed necessary
          and appropriate by the Secretary of Homeland
          Security.
          (7) COMPLAINT REVIEW  .—
               (A) IN GENERAL .—The Center shall—


                    (i) establish a mechanism to receive
               complaints from individuals affected by er-
               roneous notifications under this section;
                    (ii) ensure that any complaint is
               promptly reviewed; and
                    (iii) in the case of a complaint that in-
               volves a notification sent by another Fed-
               eral Government entity, notify the indi-
               vidual of the contact information for the
               appropriate entity and forward the com-
               plaint to the appropriate entity for prompt
               review and response pursuant to this sec-
               tion.
               (B) R ESPONSE TO COMPLAINTS   .—The Cen-
          ter shall, as applicable—
                    (i) provide the individual with notifi-
               cation in writing that the individual was
               erroneously subjected to international notifi-
               cation;
                    (ii) take action to ensure that a notifi-
               cation or information regarding the indi-
               vidual is not erroneously transmitted to a
               destination country in the future; and
                    (iii) submit an additional written no-
               tification to the individual explaining why

               a notification or information regarding the
               individual was erroneously transmitted to
               the destination country and describing the
               actions that the Center has taken or is tak-
               ing under clause (ii).
               (C) PUBLIC AWARENESS   .—The Center shall
          make publicly available information on how an
          individual may submit a complaint under this
          section.
               (D) R EPORTING REQUIREMENT    .—The Sec-
          retary of Homeland Security shall submit an
          annual report to the appropriate congressional
          committees (as defined in section 9) that in-
          cludes—
                   (i) the number of instances in which a
               notification or information was erroneously
               transmitted to the destination country of an
               individual under paragraph (3); and
                   (ii) the actions taken to prevent simi-
               lar errors from occurring in the future.
          (8) ANNUAL REVIEW PROCESS   .—The Center shall
      establish, in coordination with the Attorney General,
      the Secretary of State, and INTERPOL, an annual
      review process to ensure that there is appropriate co-
      ordination and collaboration, including consistent

      procedures governing the activities authorized under
      this Act, in carrying out this Act.
          (9) INFORMATION REQUIRED    .—The Center shall
      make available to the United States Marshals Serv-
      ice’s National Sex Offender Targeting Center infor-
      mation on travel by sex offenders in a timely manner.
      (f) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term ‘‘sex of-
fender’’ means—
          (1) a covered sex offender; or
          (2) an individual required to register under the
      sex offender registration program of any jurisdiction
      or included in the National Sex Offender Registry, on
      the basis of an offense against a minor.
 SEC. 5. NOTIFICATION BY THE UNITED STATES MARSHALS
              SERVICE.
      (a) N G ENERAL .—The United States Marshals Serv-
ice’s National Sex Offender Targeting Center may—
          (1) transmit notification of international travel
      of a sex offender to the destination country of the sex
      offender, including to the visa-issuing agent or agents
      in the United States of the country;
          (2) share information relating to traveling sex
      offenders with other Federal, State, local, and foreign
      agencies and entities, as appropriate;


          (3) receive incoming notifications concerning in-
      dividuals seeking to enter the United States who have
      committed offenses of a sexual nature and shall share
      the information received immediately with the De-
      partment of Homeland Security; and
          (4) perform such other functions at the Attorney
      General or the Director of the United States Marshals
      Service may direct.
      (b) CONSISTENT  NOTIFICATION .—In making notifica-
tions under subsection (a)(1), the United States Marshals
Service’s National Sex Offender Targeting Center shall, to
the extent feasible and appropriate, ensure that the destina-
tion country is consistently notified in advance about sex
offenders under SORNA identified through their inclusion
in sex offender registries of jurisdictions or the National Sex
Offender Registry.
      (c) NFORMATION   R EQUIRED .—For purposes of car-
rying out this Act, the United States Marshals Service’s Na-
tional Sex Offender Targeting Center shall—
          (1) make the case management system or other
      system that provides access to a list of individuals
      who have provided advanced notice of international
      travel available to the Angel Watch Center;
          (2) provide the Angel Watch Center a determina-
      tion of compliance with title I of the Adam Walsh

      Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (42 U.S.C.
      16901 et seq.) for the list of individuals transmitted
      under section 4(e)(1)(C);
          (3) make available to the Angel Watch Center in-
      formation on travel by sex offenders in a timely man-
      ner; and
          (4) consult with the Department of State regard-
      ing operation of the international notification pro-
      gram authorized under this Act.
      (d) CORRECTIONS  .—Upon receiving information that
a notification sent by the United States Marshals Service’s
National Sex Offender Targeting Center regarding an indi-
vidual was inaccurate, the United States Marshals Service’s
National Sex Offender Targeting Center shall imme-
diately—
          (1) send a notification of correction to the des-
      tination country notified;
          (2) correct all data collected in accordance with
      subsection (f); and
          (3) if applicable, send a notification of correction
      to the Angel Watch Center.
      (e) FORM .—The notification under this section may
be transmitted through such means as are determined ap-
propriate by the United States Marshals Service’s National
Sex Offender Targeting Center, including through the

INTERPOL notification system and through Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation Legal attaches.
     (f) C OLLECTION OF   D ATA.—The Attorney General
shall collect all relevant data, including—
          (1) a record of each notification sent under sub-
     section (a);
          (2) the response of the destination country to no-
     tifications under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection
     (a), where available;
          (3) any decision not to transmit a notification
     abroad, to the extent practicable;
          (4) the number of transmissions made under
     paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) and the
     countries to which they are transmitted;
          (5) whether the information was transmitted to
     the destination country before scheduled commence-
     ment of sex offender travel; and
          (6) any other information deemed necessary and
     appropriate by the Attorney General.
     (g) COMPLAINT  REVIEW .—
          (1) IN GENERAL  .—The United States Marshals
     Service’s National Sex Offender Targeting Center
     shall—



               (A) establish a mechanism to receive com-
          plaints from individuals affected by erroneous
          notifications under this section;
               (B) ensure that any complaint is promptly
          reviewed; and
               (C) in the case of a complaint that involves
          a notification sent by another Federal Govern-
          ment entity, notify the individual of the contact
          information for the appropriate entity and for-
          ward the complaint to the appropriate entity for
          prompt review and response pursuant to this sec-
          tion.
          (2) R ESPONSE   TO  COMPLAINTS  .—The United
      States Marshals Service’s National Sex Offender Tar-
      geting Center shall, as applicable—
               (A) provide the individual with notification
          in writing that the individual was erroneously
          subjected to international notification;
               (B) take action to ensure that a notification
          or information regarding the individual is not
          erroneously transmitted to a destination country
          in the future; and
               (C) submit an additional written notifica-
          tion to the individual explaining why a notifica-
          tion or information regarding the individual

          was erroneously transmitted to the destination
          country and describing the actions that the
          United States Marshals Service’s National Sex
          Offender Targeting Center has taken or is taking
          under subparagraph (B).
          (3) P UBLIC  AWARENESS   .—The United States
      Marshals Service’s National Sex Offender Targeting
      Center shall make publicly available information on
      how an individual may submit a complaint under
      this section.
          (4) R EPORTING REQUIREMENT    .—The Attorney
      General shall submit an annual report to the appro-
      priate congressional committees (as defined in section
      9) that includes—
               (A) the number of instances in which a no-
          tification or information was erroneously trans-
          mitted to the destination country of an indi-
          vidual under subsection (a); and
               (B) the actions taken to prevent similar er-
          rors from occurring in the future.
      (h) DEFINITION .—In this section, the term ‘‘sex of-
fender’’ means—
          (1) a sex offender under SORNA; or



         (2) a person required to register under the sex of-
     fender registration program of any jurisdiction or in-
     cluded in the National Sex Offender Registry.
 SEC. 6. INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL.
     (a) REQUIREMENT  T HAT S EX OFFENDERS   PROVIDE
 INTERNATIONAL T RAVEL R ELATED INFORMATION  T O SEX
 OFFENDER  REGISTRIES .—Section 114 of the Adam Walsh
Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 16914)
is amended—
         (1) in subsection (a)—
              (A) by redesignating paragraph (7) as
         paragraph (8); and;
              (B) by inserting after paragraph (6) the fol-
         lowing:
         ‘‘(7) Information relating to intended travel of
     the sex offender outside the United States, including
     any anticipated dates and places of departure, ar-
     rival, or return, carrier and flight numbers for air
     travel, destination country and address or other con-
     tact information therein, means and purpose of trav-
     el, and any other itinerary or other travel-related in-
     formation required by the Attorney General.’’; and
         (2) by adding at the end the following:
     ‘‘(c)IME AND M ANNER .—A sex offender shall provide
and update information required under subsection (a), in-

cluding information relating to intended travel outside the
United States required under paragraph (7) of that sub-
section, in conformity with any time and manner require-
ments prescribed by the Attorney General.’’.
     (b) CONFORMING  A MENDMENTS TO   SECTION  2250 OF
 TITLE 18, U NITED S TATES C ODE.—Section 2250 of title
18, United States Code, is amended—
          (1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as
     subsections (c) and (d), respectively;
          (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
     lowing:
     ‘‘(b) INTERNATIONAL   TRAVEL   REPORTING   VIOLA-
 TIONS.—Whoever—
          ‘‘(1) is required to register under the Sex Of-
     fender Registration and Notification Act (42 U.S.C.
     16901 et seq.);
          ‘‘(2) knowingly fails to provide information re-
     quired by the Sex Offender Registration and Notifica-
     tion Act relating to intended travel in foreign com-
     merce; and
          ‘‘(3) engages or attempts to engage in the in-
     tended travel in foreign commerce;
shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than
10 years, or both.’’; and


           (3) in subsections (c) and (d), as redesignated,
      by striking ‘‘subsection (a)’’ each place it appears and
      inserting ‘‘subsection (a) or (b)’’.
      (c) IMPLEMENTATION   .—In carrying out this Act, and
the amendments made by this Act, the Attorney General
may use the resources and capacities of any appropriate
agencies of the Department of Justice, including the Office
of Sex Offender Sentencing, Monitoring, Apprehending,
Registering, and Tracking, the United States Marshals
Service, INTERPOL Washington-U.S. National Central
Bureau, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Criminal
Division, and the United States Attorneys’ Offices.
 SEC. 7. RECIPROCAL NOTIFICATIONS.
      It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of State,
in consultation with the Attorney General and the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, should seek reciprocal inter-
national agreements or arrangements to further the pur-
poses of this Act and the Sex Offender Registration and No-
tification Act (42 U.S.C. 16901 et seq.). Such agreements
or arrangements may establish mechanisms and under-
takings to receive and transmit notices concerning inter-
national travel by sex offenders, through the Angel Watch
Center, the INTERPOL notification system, and such other
means as may be appropriate, including notification by the
United States to other countries relating to the travel of

sex offenders from the United States, reciprocal notification
by other countries to the United States relating to the travel
of sex offenders to the United States, and mechanisms to
correct and, as applicable, remove from any other records,
any inaccurate information transmitted through such noti-
fications.
 SEC. 8. UNIQUE PASSPORT IDENTIFIERS FOR COVERED SEX
             OFFENDERS.
     (a) AMENDMENT TO   PUBLIC  LAW 110–457.—Title II
of Public Law 110–457 is amended by adding at the end
the following:
 ‘‘SEC. 240. UNIQUE PASSPORT IDENTIFIERS FOR COVERED
             SEX OFFENDERS.
     ‘‘(a) N  GENERAL .—Immediately after receiving a
written determination from the Angel Watch Center that
an individual is a covered sex offender, through the process
developed for that purpose under section 9 of the Inter-
national Megan’s Law to Prevent Child Exploitation and
Other Sexual Crimes Through Advanced Notification of
Traveling Sex Offenders, the Secretary of State shall take
appropriate action under subsection (b).
     ‘‘(b) UTHORITY  TO U SE UNIQUE  PASSPORT  DENTI -
 FIERS.—
          ‘‘(1)N GENERAL  .—Except as provided under
     paragraph (2), the Secretary of State shall not issue

      a passport to a covered sex offender unless the pass-
      port contains a unique identifier, and may revoke a
      passport previously issued without such an identifier
      of a covered sex offender.
          ‘‘(2) UTHORITY TO REISSUE   .—Notwithstanding
      paragraph (1), the Secretary of State may reissue a
      passport that does not include a unique identifier if
      an individual described in subsection (a) reapplies for
      a passport and the Angel Watch Center provides a
      written determination, through the process developed
      for that purpose under section 9 of the International
      Megan’s Law to Prevent Child Exploitation and
      Other Sexual Crimes Through Advanced Notification
      of Traveling Sex Offenders, to the Secretary of State
      that the individual is no longer required to register
      as a covered sex offender.
      ‘‘(c)EFINED  TERMS  .—In this section—
          ‘‘(1) the term ‘covered sex offender’ means an in-
      dividual who—
               ‘‘(A) is a sex offender, as defined in section
          4(f) of the International Megan’s Law to Prevent
          Child Exploitation and Other Sexual Crimes
          Through Advanced Notification of Traveling Sex
          Offenders; and


                ‘‘(B) is currently required to register under
           the sex offender registration program of any ju-
           risdiction;
           ‘‘(2) the term ‘unique identifier’ means any vis-
      ual designation affixed to a conspicuous location on
      the passport indicating that the individual is a cov-
      ered sex offender; and
           ‘‘(3) the term ‘passport’ means a passport book
      or passport card.
      ‘‘(d) ROHIBITION  .—The Secretary of State, the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, and the Attorney General,
and their agencies, officers, employees, and agents, shall not
be liable to any person for any action taken under this sec-
tion.
      ‘‘(e) ISCLOSURE  .—In furtherance of this section, the
Secretary of State may require a passport applicant to dis-
close that they are a registered sex offender.
      ‘‘(f) FFECTIVE  D ATE .—This section shall take effect
upon certification by the Secretary of State, the Secretary
of Homeland Security, and the Attorney General, that the
process developed and reported to the appropriate congres-
sional committees under section 9 of the International
Megan’s Law to Prevent Child Exploitation and Other Sex-
ual Crimes Through Advanced Notification of Traveling
Sex Offenders has been successfully implemented.’’.

 SEC. 9. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.
     (a) IN  GENERAL .—Not later than 90 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland
Security, the Secretary of State, and the Attorney General
shall develop a process by which to implement section
4(e)(5) and the provisions of section 240 of Public Law
110–457, as added by section 8 of this Act.
     (b) R EPORTING  R EQUIREMENT  .—Not later than 90
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Homeland Security, the Secretary of State, and the At-
torney General shall jointly submit a report to, and shall
consult with, the appropriate congressional committees on
the process developed under subsection (a), which shall in-
clude a description of the proposed process and a timeline
and plan for implementation of that process, and shall
identify the resources required to effectively implement that
process.
     (c) ‘‘APPROPRIATE    CONGRESSIONAL    COMMITTEES  ’’
 D EFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appropriate congres-
sional committees’’ means—
          (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the
     Senate;
          (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
     House of Representatives;
          (3) the Committee on Homeland Security and
     Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
          (4) the Committee on Homeland Security of the
      House of Representatives;
          (5) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Sen-
      ate;
          (6) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House
      of Representatives;
          (7) the Committee on Appropriations of the Sen-
      ate; and
          (8) the Committee on Appropriations of the
      House of Representatives.
 SEC. 10. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.
      The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Attor-
ney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security, may
provide technical assistance to foreign authorities in order
to enable such authorities to participate more effectively in
the notification program system established under this Act.
 SEC. 11. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
      There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out
this Act $6,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 and 2018.
 SEC. 12. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
      Nothing in this Act shall be construed to limit inter-
national information sharing or law enforcement coopera-
tion relating to any person pursuant to any authority of
the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland
Security, or any other department or agency.

     Amend the title so as to read: ‘‘An Act to protect
children and others from sexual abuse and exploitation,
including sex trafficking and sex tourism, by providing
advance notice of intended travel by registered sex of-
fenders outside the United States to the government of
the country of destination, requesting foreign govern-
ments to notify the United States when a known sex of-
fender is seeking to enter the United States, and for
other purposes.’’.
     Attest:


                                                 Secretary.














      1TH
      ST
      ESSIONESS
AMENDMENTS

     H.R. 515